<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Accounting</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="accounting">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="college-name"><span class="generated-style">Accounting</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Accounting</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 hours (unless pursuing CPA or MPA) for the degree; 21 hours for the major </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.5 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes–for CBA students only</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Accounting and Business Law</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Paul Shoemaker</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Brown, Shoemaker, Smith</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Allen, Crabtree, Lawrence, Ruchala</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Seavey, Tanyi, Wan</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Cosgrove</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The School of Accountancy is separately accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The School’s mission is to create an academic environment that enables student and faculty development into effective and ethical accounting professionals. In accomplishing its mission, the faculty fosters integrity and ethical behavior to protect the public interest. More specifically, the School of Accountancy community accomplishes its mission in advancing accounting education through:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Fostering intellectual curiosity, academic excellence, business insights, and accounting expertise;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Creating high-impact, relevant research; and</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Engaging and collaborating with professional communities.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The courses in accounting are designed to give business students a basic proficiency in accounting as an analytical tool for understanding business and public affairs and to develop essential theory and application for those specializing in the field. Students who complete the College of Business Administration program with a major in accounting and/or the master of professional accountancy degree (MPA), are well prepared to accept positions in industry, commerce, government service, or public accounting.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students interested in the accounting discipline are </span><span class="basic-text-ital">strongly</span><span class="generated-style"> encouraged to work closely with faculty members in the School to understand requirements and options available for those interested in careers as certified public accountants and options to pursue the five-year, Master of Professional Accountancy program. Requirements and processes vary with each of these options.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Major/Department Admission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Other Admission Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Enrollment in the Masters of Professional Accountancy program will require admission to the graduate program after obtaining senior standing and having completed the accounting courses normally required in the junior year (ACCT 308, ACCT 309, ACCT 313, ACCT 314, and BLAW 372). See the online Graduate Bulletin for admission requirements specific to the Business Interdepartmental Area.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 21 hours of course work for the major.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All students will complete ACCT 201 and ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting I &amp; II, 3 credit hours each as part of the Business Core Foundation (BCF). </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 306 Survey of Accounting, for 4 credit hours may be an alternative option for actuarial science majors and for non-accounting majors transferring in with junior standing and excellent academic performance (by permission only).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All students interested in the bachelor of science degree with a major in accounting will take BLAW 372 Business Law I as part of the Business Core Intermediate requirements (instead of BLAW 371).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Enrollment in many of the accounting courses requires certain grades in prerequisite courses as well as enrollment in a sequenced order. Refer to course descriptions for prerequisite requirements.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">As noted in the College Degree Requirements section, all course work for the major must be taken for a grade.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Accounting majors are exempt from taking the International Business Course requirement as part of their degree requirements.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Bachelor of Science in Business Administration–Major: Accounting</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M) </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for students interested in pursuing the bachelor of science degree with a major in accounting will complete 21 hours of course work for the Business Core Advanced-Major (BCA-M). </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 308 Managerial Accounting</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 309 Accounting Systems</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 313 Intermediate Accounting I</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 314 Intermediate Accounting II</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 410 Auditing</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 412 Federal Tax Accounting</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT Elective </span><span class="list-ital">(selected from)</span><span class="generated-style">:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 404 Advanced Accounting</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 408 Advanced Managerial Accounting</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Master of Professional Accountancy</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">As part of the College Requirements and Major Core Requirements, students interested in pursuing the master of professional accountancy degree will complete 150 hours consisting of College Degree Requirements (including enrollment in BLAW 372 in place of BLAW 371) plus the following courses:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 308 Managerial Accounting</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 309 Accounting Systems</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 313 Intermediate Accounting I</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 314 Intermediate Accounting II</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Courses listed under the senior year</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Courses listed under the masters’ year</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Enrollment in the Masters of Professional Accountancy program will require admission to the graduate program. The application should be completed the semester before graduation with the bachelor of science degree.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students should work closely with the Graduate College, the Business Interdepartmental Area Graduate Committee (CBA 125) and the MPA director for admission and enrollment requirements. Application is required through the Graduate Admissions Management and Evaluation System (GAMES) which will include online submission of:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Graduate College Application</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Three letters of recommendation</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Two copies of official transcripts of all college course work completed </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">And completion of ACCT 308, ACCT 309, ACCT 313, ACCT 314 and BLAW 372</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">During the senior year for the MPA program, students will take the following 9 hours of course work:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">*ACCT 410/810 Auditing</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">*ACCT 412/812 Federal Tax Accounting</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">*ACCT Elective </span><span class="list-ital">(selected from)</span><span class="generated-style">:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 404/804 Advanced Accounting</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 408/804 Advanced Managerial Accounting</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">Students planning to do the MPA program should plan a maximum of two senior-level accounting courses to be held for Graduate Credit. They need to take these courses at the graduate level. To do this, they must complete the form at http://research.unl.edu/gradstudies/credit/.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">During the master’s year of the MPA program, students are required to complete 30 hours of the following:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 803 Seminar in Financial Accounting</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 831 Seminar in Auditing</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 857 Controllership or ACCT 858 Seminar in Managerial Accounting</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Accounting 900 level (or 800 level with no 400-level counterparts) - 6 hours </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Additional graduate-level course work to meet minimum 150 hours - 15 hours</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style"> Additional requirements such as submission of a memorandum of courses form, should be completed during the fifth year of the program. The memorandum must be completed prior to completion of half of the MPA program.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students should contact the MPA adviser for additional information. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students’ registration forms must be signed by the MPA adviser each semester.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Certified Public Accountant (CPA)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The CPA Exam is a national exam but licensing requirements are set by jurisdiction (the 50 states, District of Columbia, and U.S. territories) of residence. Nebraska requires 150 hours of education, successful completion of the CPA Exam and two years of qualifying work experience for licensure. Nebraska specifically requires 30 hours of accounting courses (beyond principles of accounting) be included in the 150 hour requirement. Candidates with a masters of professional accountancy (MPA) degree from UNL automatically meet the educational requirements. Otherwise, transcripts will be examined for compliance with educational requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Nebraska Board of Public Accountancy has a 60/90 provision for meeting the educational requirements to sit for the CPA Exam. Candidates who will complete their educational requirements (150 hours) within 60 days after taking the CPA Exam are eligible to take the exam, but they will not receive credit for the exam unless evidence satisfactory to the Board showing the completion of the educational requirements is received by the Board within 90 days following when the candidate took the exam.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Visit the Nebraska Board of Public Accountancy website for additional information (www.nbpa.ne.gov/).</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">(30 Semester Hours of Accounting Beyond Principles)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">University of Nebraska–Lincoln courses that will satisfy the accounting requirements. Thirty semester hours beyond Accounting Principles are required. A minimum of 3 hours must be taken in each of the areas below (except Other Accounting Courses).</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Financial Accounting, Theory and Problems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 313 Intermediate Accounting (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 314 Intermediate Accounting (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 404/804 Advanced Accounting (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 803 Seminar in Financial Accounting (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 805 Financial Accounting (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 888 Financial Statement Analysis (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Cost and Managerial Accounting 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 308 Managerial Accounting (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 408/808 Advanced Managerial Accounting (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 858 Seminar in Managerial Accounting (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Tax Preparation and Planning 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 412/812 Federal Tax Accounting (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 813 Corporate Tax Accounting (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 815 Tax Research &amp; Planning (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 816 Special Topics in Federal Taxation (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 817 The Income Tax &amp; Management Decisions (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 819 Partnership Tax Accounting (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Auditing 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 410/810 Auditing (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 831 Seminar in Auditing (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Information Systems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 309 Accounting Systems (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Governmental and Not-for-Profit 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 404/804 Advanced Accounting (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 814 Governmental &amp; Not-for-Profit Accounting (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Other Accounting Courses</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 399 Independent Study (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 399H Honors Independent Study (1-3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 499H Honors Thesis (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 802 Accounting Standards (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 807 Professional Responsibility &amp; Ethics in Accounting (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 840 Fraud Examination (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 857 Controllership (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 920 History &amp; Philosophy of Accounting Thought (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 990 Accountancy Internship (1-3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Most graduate-only courses—800 level with no 400 counterpart and 900-level courses—cannot be taken by undergraduate students. Some graduate courses are open to MPA students only. Consult with your faculty adviser or the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">(36 Semester Hours in General Business)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">University of Nebraska–Lincoln courses that will satisfy the General Business Requirements. At least 6 hours of Principles of Accounting are required and at least 3 hours from each of the other areas are required (except for Other Business Courses).</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Macroeconomics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ECON 311 Intermediate Macroeconomics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Microeconomics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ECON 210 Intro to Economics (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ECON 312 Intermediate Microeconomics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Law 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BLAW 371 Legal Environment (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BLAW 372 Business Law I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Marketing 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 341 Marketing (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 341H Honors: Marketing (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Management 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 350 Intro to Management Information Systems (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 360 Managing Behavior in Organizations </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> MNGT 360H Honors: Managing Behavior in Organizations (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Finance 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FINA 361 Finance (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FINA 361H Honors: Finance (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Communications 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">JGEN 220 Business Communication Strategies (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Ethics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 807 Professional Responsibility &amp; Ethics in Accounting (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BLAW 371 Legal Environment (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BLAW 372 Business Law I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Quantitative Applications in Business 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 245 Elementary Quantitative Methods (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 331 Operations &amp; Supply Chain Management (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Principles of Accounting 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 6 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ACCT 201H Honors: Introductory Accounting I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting II </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ACCT 202H Honors: Introductory Accounting II (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 306 Survey of Accounting (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Other Business Courses</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 475 Business Policies &amp; Strategies (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Electives</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">As noted with the MPA and/or CPA, students </span><span class="basic-text-ital">may</span><span class="generated-style"> choose to take elective course work required for the degree in course options suggested. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">See College Degree Requirements–Electives for additional options/restrictions regarding elective credit for the degree. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Enrollment in many of the accounting courses requires certain grades in prerequisite courses as well as enrollment in a sequenced order. Refer to course descriptions for prerequisite requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">C- and D Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Grades of C or better are required in accounting courses which serve as prerequisites for upper-level accounting courses unless special permission is given by the director of the School of Accountancy.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">No accounting courses can be taken on a Pass/No Pass basis with the exception of ACCT 399.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Level Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Upper-level accounting course work (300/400-level) must be taken at UNL (i.e. may not transfer in 300/400-level accounting courses from another institution without prior permission).</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All 800- and 900-level courses are open to graduate students; some 800-level courses may be taken by undergraduate students with permission.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The accounting minor is available to College of Business Administration students only. The college expects that 75% of the course work will be completed at UNL.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Accounting course work used for this minor cannot be double counted toward business core foundation, intermediate or advanced-major degree requirements, for another major (except as noted for finance majors, nor any other business minor requirements. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To fulfill the requirements for an accounting minor, students must complete 12 graded hours of accounting course work beyond accounting principles to include the following (to be taken for a grade [no Pass/No Pass]): </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 308 Managerial Accounting</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 309 Accounting Systems</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 313 Intermediate Accounting I</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 314 Intermediate Accounting II </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ACCT 412 Federal Tax Accounting</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Finance majors may want to consider an accounting minor as course work for the finance major in the </span><span class="basic-text-bold">general finance option</span><span class="generated-style"> and </span><span class="basic-text-bold">CFA®</span><span class="generated-style"> – investments option allows for a double counting of ACCT 308, ACCT 313, and ACCT 314. Double counting availability depends on the option selected.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
