<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Actuarial Science (ASC)</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="actuarial-science-asc-">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Actuarial Science (ASC)</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Actuarial Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Art or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Warren Luckner</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director and Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Warren Luckner, 210 CBA</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Ramsay</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Mashayekhi</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Vagts</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">http://cba.unl.edu/academics/actuarial/</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">An actuary is a mathematically-oriented business person who will most likely be a manager or supervisor at some point in his/her career. Thus, a course of study culminating in a bachelor of science degree in business administration with a major in actuarial science is an excellent educational background for prospective actuaries. Additional information is available at www.BeAnActuary.org.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The actuarial science program is designed to prepare students for the current industry demands. Because the demands change on a regular basis, often times, the number of hours, the sequencing of courses, and the specific requirements change for this major. Students should continue to consult with the department for the appropriate selection and listing of course requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All actuarial science students are encouraged to visit the actuarial science program’s website (http://cba.unl.edu/academics/actuarial/) and an actuarial science program faculty adviser for more information about the program, including the Actuarial Science Club, sequencing of courses, scholarship opportunities, and the requirements for achieving professional actuarial designations. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">See the College of Business Administration section of this bulletin for a description of the major in that college.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The major must include a complete calculus sequence (MATH 106/MATH 107/MATH 208, or MATH 108H/MATH 109H, or the equivalent); and the following statistics and probability sequence: STAT 380, STAT 462, STAT 463 and 22 semester hours of actuarial science. (See actuarial science adviser for specified courses in actuarial science.)</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must complete STAT 462 before taking any 400-level actuarial science course except ACTS 440; STAT 463 may be taken concurrently with ACTS 470.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits (related to the major)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">No course may be taken Pass/No Pass.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A.</span><span class="generated-style"> Requires 15 hrs of actuarial science plus prerequisite mathematics and statistics courses.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan B.</span><span class="generated-style"> Requires 12 hrs of actuarial science plus prerequisite mathematics and statistics courses.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
