<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Actuarial Science (CBA).xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="actuarial-science-cba-">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Actuarial Science (CBA)</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Business Administration</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Actuarial Science (CBA)</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 hours for degree (28 hours for the major) </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.5 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Warren Luckner, Sue Vagts</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION </p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor:</span> Ramsay</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice: </span>Warren Luckner</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span> Shi</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor:</span> Mashayekhi</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor of Practice:</span> Vagts</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>An actuary is a mathematically-oriented business person who will most likely be a manager or supervisor at some point in his/her career. Thus, a course of study culminating in a bachelor of science degree in business administration with a major in actuarial science is an excellent educational background for prospective actuaries. Additional information is available at www.BeAnActuary.org.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The actuarial science program is designed to prepare students for the current industry demands. Because the demands change on a regular basis, often times, the number of hours, the sequencing of courses, and the specific requirements change for this major. Students should continue to consult with the department for the appropriate selection and listing of course requirements.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The actuarial science program is proud to have been named one of the first Centers of Actuarial Excellence by the Society of Actuaries.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All actuarial science students are encouraged to visit the actuarial science program’s website (http://cba.unl.edu/academics/actuarial/) and an actuarial science program faculty adviser for more information about the program, including the Actuarial Science Club, sequencing of courses, scholarship opportunities, and the requirements for achieving professional actuarial designations.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In addition, because of the mathematical orientation for this program, actuarial science majors are required to make some modifications to the degree program requirements. These requirements (with a reminder that all required course work must be taken for a grade) are noted below.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSION</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Major/Department Admission</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University Admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Core Requirements</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1"> In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 28 hours of course work for the major.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">As noted in the College Degree Requirements section, all course work for the major must be taken for a grade. Actuarial science majors must take MATH 106, MATH 107, and MATH 208, as well as CSCE 101 &amp; CSCE 101L.</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">These hours have been built into the College Degree Requirements as part of the Non-Business Requirements (NBR).</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">ACTS 399/499 may not count toward the major or minor in actuarial science.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Other College Degree Requirement changes for actuarial science majors includes:</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">ACTS majors must take STAT 380 in place of ECON 215 for the Business Core Foundation (BCF) requirements.</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">ACTS majors will also take STAT 462 &amp; STAT 463 Introduction to Mathematical Statistics I &amp; II for the Business Core Foundation (BCF) requirements.</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">ACTS majors will take FINA 461 Advanced Finance in place of FINA 361 for the Business Core Intermediate (BCI) requirements; the prerequisite of FINA 361 (for FINA 363 and FINA 461) is satisfied with completion of ACTS 440.</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">12 hours of 300/400-level elective course work is NOT required for actuarial science majors. </li>
				<li class="bullet-2">As part of the college <span class="basic-text-bold">elective</span> requirements, all students complete ONE business elective course for the program. ACTS majors are WAIVED from this specific requirement; however, all ACTS majors must take an IBCR course and thus, this can be done to meet the business elective requirement. The department suggests FINA 450 International Financial Management be taken to meet the requirement. An alternative option is to take ECON 321 or MNGT 428 as part of NBR 6–ACE 9 which then double counts for both the NBR 6 and IBCR requirement. </li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Specific Major Requirements</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Requirements for students interested in pursuing the bachelor of science degree with a major in actuarial science will complete 28 hours of actuarial science course work for the Business Core Advanced-Major (BCA-M): </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ACTS 430 Actuarial Applications of Applied Statistics </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ACTS 440 Financial Mathematics</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ACTS 470 Life Contingencies I </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ACTS 471 Life Contingencies II </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ACTS 473 Intro to Risk Theory</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ACTS 475 Actuarial Applications in Practice</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>FINA 307 Principles of Individual Risk Management &amp; Insurance <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> FINA 338 Principles of Corporate Risk Management</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>FINA 363 Investment Principles</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="list-ital">Choose one of the following:</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ACTS 410 Intro to Credibility, Smoothing of Data &amp; Simulation</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ACTS 425 Survival Models</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ACTS 450 Stochastic Processes for Actuaries</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>FINA 467 Options, Futures &amp; Derivative Securities</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>In addition to the 28 hours for the major, ACTS majors are also encouraged to take:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Actuarial science problem labs as appropriate </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">MATH 314 Applied Linear Algebra, MATH 221 Differential Equations</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">At least one of FINA 412, FINA 420, FINA 438, or ECON 413</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'> While not required, actuarial science majors may double major in finance. The finance department allows double counting of courses for students choosing to obtain a double major in actuarial science and finance. </p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Actuarial Science and Finance Double Majors </p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. Take the Core Finance Requirements.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Choose ONE of the four options available. Students may select only ONE option to complete.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list-2" xml:lang='en-us'>a. If choosing the General Finance Option, double majors must take FINA 375 Financial Statement Analysis, and cannot take FINA 307 as a finance elective</p>
			<p class="numbered-list-3" xml:lang='en-us'>i. Also, consider choosing FINA 450 as one of the 400-level options to meet the requirement for the major as well as a requirement for the IBCR.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list-2" xml:lang='en-us'>b. For all other options within the finance major, the required and elective finance courses are the same as those of a student obtaining just the finance major. </p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Finance Minor</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Actuarial students may double count their finance courses towards a finance minor. They will follow the regular minor found in the finance section of the Bulletin. The courses used might include:</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>FINA 307 or FINA 338</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>FINA 363</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>FINA 365/ECON 365</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>FINA 450 or FINA 467 or FINA 412 or FINA 420 or FINA 438</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>C- and D Grades</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Same as College grade rules.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Same as College Pass/No Pass limits.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>GPA Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Same as College GPA requirements.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Actuarial Science Minor</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>To fulfill the requirements for an actuarial science minor, students must complete:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Twelve (12) graded hours of actuarial science course work; ACTS 440, ACTS 470, ACTS 471, and ACTS 473 are recommended.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">(no Pass/No Pass)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">ACTS 399 may not be used toward the minor (or major).</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">The college requires that 75% of the minor be earned on campus.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>OTHER</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Actuarial Science Major</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>All course work for the major must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass).</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Substitutions When Changing Majors</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>If ACTS students change to a different major in the College of Business Administration, the following substitutions may be made.</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ACTS 440 for FINA 361</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>STAT 380 for ECON 215</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
