<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Agricultural Education</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="agricultural-education">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Agricultural Education</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Agricultural Education</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Education</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span><span class="generated-style"> 2.0 for graduation, 2.5 for graduation with teaching option</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes–Environmental Communication, Leadership &amp; Communication</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISERS:</span><span class="generated-style"> Lloyd Bell (teaching), Gina Matkin (agricultural leadership)</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Head: Mark Balschweid,</span><span class="generated-style"> Department of Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication; 300 Agriculture Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bell, Husmann</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Matkin, Kang</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Kreifels</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A degree in agricultural education is designed to prepare students with the necessary communication and interpersonal skills, leadership training, and knowledge of technical agriculture to be a teacher of agricultural education at the secondary or postsecondary level, or accept employment in agribusiness leading to positions in training and/or development. The degree provides good preparation for work in agricultural extension, positions in foreign service, and agricultural educators in business and industry. Many students graduate with a dual degree in agricultural education and another degree in the College. Agricultural education students may elect to follow the teaching options or the leadership option.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Major/Department Admission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students desiring to be admitted to the Teacher Education program in the Department of Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication should apply as early as possible after the completion of at least 42 credit hours (at least one year before they plan to student teach). Student teaching is conducted off campus through university-approved agreements with cooperating secondary schools. Plans for student teaching must be made early.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To be admitted into the student teaching program candidates must have: 1) a minimum scholastic grade point average of 2.50 including no grades lower than “C”: within the endorsement area, and no grades lower than “C+” within professional education courses, 2) passing scores within the Pre-Professional Skills Test (PPST), 3) 1,000 hours of verified work experience within the agriculture, food, natural resources (AFNR) career cluster, or 300 hours of supervised employment in the AFNR career cluster under the direction of a UNL academic unit, 4) three written letters of recommendation; one of which must be a character reference. Student Teaching (ALEC 431) is available as Pass/No Pass only. Meet with your adviser to plan for your student teaching experience.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Other Admission Requirements </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Teaching Certificate</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Successful completion of the teaching endorsement requirements, along with a recommendation by the Department of Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication, warrants recommendation for a Nebraska Secondary Teaching Certificate by the Nebraska Department of Education, with an endorsement to teach secondary agricultural education (7-12). The choice is available to students to complete course work qualifying for subject endorsement in biology.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in other agricultural degree programs may qualify based upon meeting the teaching certificate requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Criminal History/Background Check</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Effective August 2012, individuals enrolled in any UNL teacher education course requiring a practicum experience in schools or other institutions must have successfully completed a background review prior to any practicum visitations. Two successful reviews will be required during your teacher preparation program; one prior to your initial practicum experience, and a second prior to your student teaching field experience. Background reviews must be completed through One Source, The Background Check Company. </span><span class="basic-text-bold">See your adviser or practicum course instructor for necessary details to request and complete a background review</span><span class="generated-style">.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Nebraska State Department of Education Policy Pertaining to Students with Felony or Misdemeanor Convictions</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Nebraska Department of Education policy requires that a person with felony convictions or misdemeanor convictions involving abuse, neglect, or sexual misconduct shall not be allowed to participate in pre-student teaching laboratory and classroom experiences or student teach without approval by the Board of Education. To comply with this policy, the Department of Agricultural Education will require each student to affirm under oath that he/she does not have any convictions in the above-named areas prior to each field placement. If a student does have any felony or misdemeanor convictions, he/she is required to meet with Dr. Tom Wandzilak, Certification Officer, Student Services Center, 104 Henzlik Hall, 402-472-8626, as soon as possible. Students with questions pertaining to convictions should contact Dr. Wandzilak.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Teaching Option</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">College Integrative Courses 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGRI 103/NRES 103 Intro to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 431 Student Teaching </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 10) (Capstone Course) (P/NP only)</span><span class="generated-style"> 12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics and Statistics</span><span class="requirement-sec-1-italic"> (beyond college algebra)</span><span class="generated-style"> 5-6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 102 Trigonometry (2 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> MATH 104 Calculus for Mathematics &amp; Social Sciences (3 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> MATH 203 Contemporary Mathematics (3 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">and</span><span class="generated-style"> STAT 218 Intro to Statistics </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 3) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="requirement-ital"> </span><span class="generated-style">EDPS 459 Statistical Methods (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Communications 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Written Communication (ACE 1) 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> ENGL 150, ENGL 151, ENGL 254; JGEN 200, JGEN 300</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Oral Communication 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span><span class="generated-style">COMM 209 or COMM 286</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Communication/Interpersonal Skills: ALEC 102 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 4)</span><span class="generated-style"> 12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HORT 131 &amp; HORT 133 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 105* Chemistry in Context I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 141 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> MSYM 109 4</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">*Students pursuing combined agriculture-biology endorsement must complete CHEM 109.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Economics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AECN 141 Intro to the Economics of Agriculture </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 6)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Humanities and Social Sciences 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">EDPS 457 Learning &amp; Motivation Principles for Secondary Teaching 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 217 Nationality &amp; Race Relations </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> TEAC 330 Multicultural <br />Education </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 9)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Humanities and Social Sciences electives 9 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Select one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, and 8.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Agricultural and Natural Resource Sciences 36</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">A minimum of 15 hours completed at the 200 level or above, and a minimum of 9 hours completed at the 300 level or above. Students must have a course in four CASNR departments or program areas. A course may be used to fulfill more than one category; however, the hours will only count once toward the 36-hour agricultural science requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Research and Applied Technology 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> AGRI 115; AGRO 315, AGRO 431; FDST 131</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Policy 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> AECN 265, AECN 276, AECN 346, AECN 376; NRES 323; POLS 235, POLS 236</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Management 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span><span class="generated-style">AECN 201, AECN 325; ASCI 250, ASCI 320, ASCI 330, ASCI 450, ASCI 451, ASCI 452, ASCI 453, ASCI 454, ASCI 455, ASCI 457; AGRO 204, AGRO 240, AGRO 405; HORT 325</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Production 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span><span class="generated-style">ASCI 100 or ASCI 150 or HORT 133, HORT 159, HORT 221, HORT 325, HORT 327, HORT 350</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Natural Resources 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span><span class="generated-style">AECN 265; AGRO 153, AGRO 366; BIOS 232; ENTO 109; NRES 211, NRES 220, NRES 311</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Mechanized Systems 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span><span class="generated-style">MSYM 232, MSYM 245, MSYM 312; ALEC 104, ALEC 203, ALEC 205, ALEC 242</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Food System 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from</span><span class="generated-style">: AECN 225; ASCI 210; or FDST 101, FDST 131</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Leadership and Education 20</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 134 Agricultural Education, Journalism, &amp; Leadership Careers 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 135 Early Field Experience in Agricultural Education, Leadership &amp; Communication 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 234 Planning Leadership &amp; Experience Programs 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 308 Lab Instruction &amp; Management 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 405 Methods of Instruction for Secondary Agriscience Education 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 405L Methods of Instruction Laboratory Education 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 413 Program Development 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 494 Undergraduate Seminar in Agricultural Education 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SPED 401B Accommodating Exceptional Learners in the Secondary School Classroom </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> SPED 434 Intro to Special Vocational Needs 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Free Electives 4-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Credit Hours Required for Graduation 120</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Biology Endorsement Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">If the student desires to qualify for both an endorsement in agricultural education and a subject endorsement in biology, the following course work should be integrated into the teaching option.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Supporting Laboratory Based Courses (12 hours)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry: CHEM 109 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Physics: PHYS 141, PHYS 151, or MSYM 109 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Earth Science: AGRO 153 Soil Resources 4 </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Biology Courses (24 hours)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Select at least one of the suggested courses from each of the following categories. A course may be used more than once toward fulfilling the content requirement, however a minimum of 24 different hours is required. At least 12 hours must be taken at the 200 level or higher. Other course work may be negotiated with your academic adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Botany</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 109 General Botany 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">AGRO 131 &amp; AGRO 132 Plant Science &amp; Agronomic Lab 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">AGRO 204 Resource-Efficient Crop Management 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">AGRO 240 Forage Crop &amp; Range Management 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">HORT 131 &amp; HORT 133 Plant Science &amp; Intro to Horticultural Sciences Lab 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Cell Biology/Biochemistry</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 102 Cell Structure &amp; Function </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOC 321 &amp; BIOC 321L Elements of Biochemistry &amp; Lab 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Ecology</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">AGRI 103/NRES 103 Intro to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resources Systems 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">NRES 211 Intro to Conservation Biology 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">NRES 311 Wildlife Ecology &amp; Management 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Evolution</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Genetics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">AGRO 315 Genetics 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Human Biology</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L Human Physiology &amp; Lab 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Microbiology</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">FDST 372 Food Safety &amp; Sanitation 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Zoology</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 240 Anatomy &amp; Physiology of Domestic Animals 4 </span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">*To be eligible for the biology endorsement, a student must maintain a minimum grade point average of 2.5 in the above course work or its equivalency.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Integrated Laboratory Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 308 Laboratory Instruction &amp; Management 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Science Methods Instruction</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 451V Secondary Science 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 397 Professional Practicum Experience III parallel with TEAC 451V 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Teaching</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Students seeking a dual endorsement will be required to complete their student teaching experience in a school where they will spend teaching time in both biology and agriculture.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Horticulture Education Endorsement Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">If the student desires to add a subject endorsement in horticulture education to their teaching certification, the following course work should be completed.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Horticulture Education (Grades 7-12) 33 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 400 Overview to Program Planning </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ALEC 413 Program Development 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HORT 131 Plant Science 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HORT 133 Intro to Horticultural Sciences Lab 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HORT 153 Soil Resources 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HORT 212 Landscape Plants I </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> HORT 213 Landscape Plants II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HORT 221 Plant Propagation 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HORT 227 Introductory Turfgrass Management 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HORT 228 Intro to Landscape Management 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HORT 261 Floral Design I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HORT 325 Greenhouse Practices &amp; Management 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HORT 395 Career Experience 3</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Skilled and Technical Sciences 2+2 Teaching Option</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The following is a 2+2 program for students interested in obtaining certification in Skilled and Technical Sciences (STS). This certification will allow an individual to teach Skilled and Technical Sciences in a Nebraska secondary school (grades 7-12). Completion of the 60 credit hour requirement in the Skilled and Technical Sciences 2 + 2 Teaching Option at UNL, along with the completion of an associate of applied science within a post-secondary institution with a 2 + 2 agreement, will allow a student to complete a BS degree in agricultural education from UNL.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The program is an agreement between the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources (CASNR) and community college systems in Nebraska. The 2+2 program requires a student to complete the first two years at a community college and earn an associate of applied science degree before transferring to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln (UNL).</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The transfer policy in CASNR will be in effect for all students interested in the STS 2+2 program. This 2+2 program is for the STS teaching program and will be the only program available for students to become certified at UNL. Students transferring into other UNL programs other than the STS program must follow the requirements set forth through the departments within the specific colleges.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The prerequisite for entry into the STS certification program at UNL is the completion of the Skilled and Technical Sciences Program at a community college with a 2 + 2 Skilled and Technical Sciences Agreement. Students who transfer into UNL from other programs within the community college system will not be eligible for entry into the 2+2 program in STS at UNL.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To be admitted into the student teaching program candidates must have: 1) a minimum scholastic grade point average of 2.50 including no grades lower than “C” within the endorsement area, and no grades lower than “C+” within professional education courses; 2) passing scores within the Pre-Professional Skills Test (PPST); 3) 1,000 hours of verified work experience within the Skilled and Technical Sciences (STS) career cluster, or 300 hours of supervised employment in the STS career cluster under the direction of a UNL academic unit; and 4) three written letters of recommendation; one of which must be a character reference. Student Teaching (ALEC 431) is available as Pass/No Pass only. Meet with your adviser to plan for your student teaching experience.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Teaching Certificate.</span><span class="generated-style"> Successful completion of the teaching endorsement requirements, along with a recommendation by the Department of Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication, warrants recommendation for a Nebraska Secondary Teaching Certificate by the Department of Education, with an endorsement to teach skilled and technical sciences (7-12). </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">STS Teaching Option</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who meet entry requirements in the STS Teaching Option will have completed a variety of course work from their community college. Many of the courses within the community college system have direct equivalencies with our ACE program at UNL. Following a comprehensive transfer analysis, students will be provided an accurate degree audit of the remaining ACE courses needed at UNL along with the professional program in Agricultural Education. The minimum requirements of CASNR reflect the common core of courses that apply to students pursuing degrees in the college. Students should work with an adviser to satisfy ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, and 10 requirements. ACE requirements 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 9 will be completed through their academic programs within the community college system since it is a requirement for an associate of applied science degree at their institutions.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">ACE Requirements 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Students should work with an adviser to select one course each in ACE outcomes 5, 7, and 8.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Leadership and Education 42</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 135 Early Field Experience in Agricultural Education, Leadership &amp; Communication 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 308 Lab Instruction &amp; Management 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 405 Methods of Instruction for Secondary Agriscience Education 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 405L Methods of Instruction Lab Education 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 413 Program Development 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 424 Foundations of Career &amp; Technical Education 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 431 Student Teaching </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 10)</span><span class="generated-style"> 12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 494 Undergraduate Seminar in Agricultural Education 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 496 Independent Study in Leadership Education (SkillsUSA/PDP) 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">EDPS 209 Strategies for Academic Success 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">EDPS 457 Learning and Motivation Principles for Secondary Teaching 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SPED 401B Accommodating Exceptional Learners in the Secondary Classroom or SPED 434 Intro to Special Vocational Needs 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 259 Instructional Technology 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Free Electives 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Program Credit Requirements 51</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">STS Credit Requirements for BS Degree in Agricultural Education 60</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Maximum Credits for Transfer into UNL 60</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Credit Hours Required for Graduation 120</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Agricultural Leadership Option</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Agricultural Leadership Option is recommended for those interested in pursuing a career in the agricultural industry in the areas of leadership development, commodity board advocacy, executive development, youth and leadership development, extension, consulting/training, organizational development, human resources, public policy, rural and community development.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">College Integrative Courses 8</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGRI 103/NRES 103 Intro to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 495A Internship in Leadership Development </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 10) (Capstone Course)</span><span class="generated-style"> 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics and Statistics </span><span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">(beyond college algebra)</span><span class="generated-style"> 5-6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 102 Trigonometry (2 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> MATH 104 Calculus for Mathematics &amp; Social Sciences (3 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> MATH 203 Contemporary Mathematics (3 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">and</span><span class="generated-style"> STAT 218 Intro to Statistics </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 3) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="requirement-ital"> </span><span class="generated-style">EDPS 459 Statistical Methods (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Communications 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Written Communication 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> ENGL 150, ENGL 151, ENGL 254; JGEN 200, JGEN 300</span><span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 1)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Oral Communication 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> COMM 209 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> COMM 286</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Communication/Interpersonal Skills: ALEC 102 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 8-9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 2 of 3 Natural Sciences courses (ACE 4)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CASNR Approved Life Sciences (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 105 Chemistry in Context I </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 4)</span><span class="generated-style"> (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 109 General Chemistry (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 141 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> PHYS 151 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> MSYM 109 (4-5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Economics, Humanities and Social Sciences 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 211 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ECON 212 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> AECN 141 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 6)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Courses 12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Select one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, and 9.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Minor 12-20</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> An approved minor in the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources other than leadership and communication minor is required.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Major Requirements 33</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 134 Agricultural Education, Journalism, &amp; Leadership Careers 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 202 Leadership Development in Small Groups &amp; Teams 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 302 Dynamics of Effective Leadership in Organizations 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 305 Presentation Strategies for Agricultural Audiences 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 388 Ethics in Agriculture &amp; Natural Resources 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 407 Supervisory Leadership 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 410 Environmental Leadership 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 414 Classic Figures in Leadership 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 466 Leadership &amp; Diversity in Organizations &amp; Communities 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 477 Leadership &amp; Motivation 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 488 Leadership, Power &amp; Influence 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 494 Undergraduate Seminar in Agricultural Education 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Free Electives 20-30</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Must include one 3-credit 200-level or higher course from a department other than ALEC or the minor department.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Credit Hours Required for Graduation 120</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the teaching option of Agricultural Education need to be aware that CASNR has a 24-credit hour limitation established by the Faculty Senate. Please plan accordingly and review your status with your academic adviser every academic term.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Environmental Communications Minor</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A minor program in environmental communications is available through the Department of Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication in cooperation with the School of Natural Resources. The minor is designed to provide students with interests in environmental studies and natural resources, additional expertise that can be used in a variety of career paths and settings. It is also designed to provide the student with a general understanding and working knowledge of the interactions that do–and can–exist between the agricultural sciences, natural resources, and the environment. The ability to communicate effectively with the public about these relevant issues, in articulate, analytical and substantive ways, is becoming an increasingly valued and necessary skill, self-evident to many groups including policy makers, legislators, regulators, advocates, business, and the general public. The 12-hour minor is comprised of the following courses:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 305 Presentation Strategies for Agricultural Audiences 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 388 Ethics in Agriculture &amp; Natural Resources (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 357 Natural Resource &amp; Environmental Law (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">NRES 323 Natural Resources Policy (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 410/810 (NRES 413/813) Environmental Leadership 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NRES 423/823 Integrated Resources Management 3</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who wish to minor in environmental communications must first be assigned an adviser with copies of the approved program sent to the University Registrar and the dean of the student’s college.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Leadership and Communication Minor</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">An 18-hour minor in leadership and communication is available through the Department of Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication. Combining a leadership and communication minor with any CASNR degree strengthens students’ “employability” base by making them competent technical professionals who are also strong leaders and effective communicators. The 18-hour minor is comprised of upper and lower division courses as follows:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Complete at least three courses from the following list 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 102 Interpersonal Skills for Leadership (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 202 Leadership Development in Small Groups &amp; Teams (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 302 Dynamics of Effective Leadership in Organizations (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 305 Presentation Strategies for Agricultural Audiences (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">The remaining courses are selected from the following list 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 337 *Instructional Internship in Leadership Development (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 388 Ethics in Agriculture &amp; Natural Resources (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 407 Supervisory Leadership (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 410 Environmental Leadership (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 414 Classical Figures in Leadership (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 466 Leadership &amp; Diversity in Organizations &amp; Communities (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 477 Leadership &amp; Motivation (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 480 **Dynamics of Agricultural Environmental Journalism (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 488 Leadership, Power &amp; Influence (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AERO 331 ***Air Force Leadership Studies I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AERO 332 ***Air Force Leadership Studies II (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE: </span><span class="generated-style">Animal Science Leadership Academy students see Dr. Linda Moody for course requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">* For students having completed ALEC 102 and who have been selected as Teaching Assistants.</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">** Open only to students enrolled in the Agricultural Journalism major.</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">*** May be substituted for Air Force ROTC students only.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who wish to minor in leadership and communication must first meet with a Department of Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication faculty member from the leadership program. A completed Declaration of Minor form, filled out with the assistance of the ALEC faculty, should be signed by the student’s academic adviser and turned into the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Dean’s office.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
