<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Art 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="art-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Art</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Fine &amp; Performing Arts</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Art</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Fine Arts</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Christy Aggens</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Peter Pinnell,</span> 120 Richards Hall</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Forde, Fritz, Kunc, Pinnell</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Cal, Dominguez, Holz, Ingraham, Neal, Souto, Williams</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Asher, Bohls, Sontheimer, Sutherlen</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors of Practice:</span> Cole, Syron</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The program in the Department of Art and Art History enables students to attain proficiency in the practice of art and knowledge of the history of art in addition to a general college education. The department is keenly interested in both students who choose art as their profession and who want to devote themselves to a period of intensive education, and those who recognize the cultural advantages or who find in artistic endeavor a high degree of personal enjoyment and satisfaction.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The department offers facilities for instruction and exhibition in a variety of studios, shops, and laboratories. The Sheldon Museum of Art, adjacent to the department, is the setting for traveling exhibitions as well as the display of works of art selected from the Sheldon’s extensive permanent collection. The department also presents exhibitions in its own Eisentrager-Howard Gallery and the student-run MEDICI Gallery. These serve as extensions of the studio and classroom learning experience.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Two undergraduate degrees are available to art majors. The student’s career goals will determine the appropriate option. The bachelor of arts degree (BA) is a liberal arts degree with about forty percent of the course work in the Art and Art History Department, providing a wider exposure to various academic disciplines. The bachelor of fine arts degree (BFA) is a professional degree, the usual preparation for professional careers or graduate study in studio art, including about seventy percent of the course work from the Art and Art History Department. </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Bachelor of Arts Degree at a Glance</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Requirements 30</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Languages: Classical &amp; Modern 0-6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select from the list of “Approved Courses” found under “College Degree Requirements.”</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Library 110 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Art Major Requirements 50</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Minors 18-24</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives 9-21</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total Hours Required for Graduation 120</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Bachelor of Fine Arts Degree at a Glance</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Requirements 30</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Library 110 1 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Art Major Requirements 83</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives 6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total Hours Required for Graduation 120</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSION</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Major/Department Admission</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Any student who meets college admission requirements may declare a major in art.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Bachelor of Arts Requirements</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>BA Requirements 50</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Visual Literacy (ARTP 140A, ARTP 140B, ARTP 141A, ARTP 141B) 8</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ARTP 400 Capstone Art Experience 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Studio Electives <span class="requirement-ital">(including a minimum of 3 credits above 299)</span> 21</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AHIS 101 &amp; AHIS 102 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism I &amp; II 6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Art History electives <span class="requirement-ital">(including a minimum of 3 credits in courses numbered above 299)</span> 12</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Minor Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>BA students are required to complete one Plan A or two or more Plan B minors. Art history may only be used as a Plan B in conjunction with another minor outside of the department.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Bachelor of Fine Arts Requirements</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>BFA Requirements 83</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Visual Literacy (ARTP 140A, ARTP 140B, ARTP 141A, ARTP 141B) 8</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Required Distribution 18</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>DRAW 201 intermediate Drawing 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>CERM 231 Beginning Ceramics 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>PANT 251 Beginning Painting I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>PHOT 261 Beginning Photography-Digital 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>PRNT 241 Beginning Printmaking I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>SCLP 211 Beginning Sculpture I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Studio Electives <span class="requirement-ital">(emphasis, if desired)</span> 39</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ARTP 400 Capstone Art Experience 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AHIS 101 &amp; AHIS 102 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism I &amp; II 6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Art History electives <span class="requirement-ital">(including a minimum of 3 credits in courses numbered above 299)</span> 9</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Emphasis Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>BFA students may opt to focus their studio electives in one area for an unofficial emphasis. Available areas of emphasis include ceramics, drawing, graphic design, painting, photography, printmaking, and sculpture. Course recommendations are available from the department.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Minor Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>BFA students are not allowed to declare a minor. </p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>BA Degree</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">All courses taken for major requirements must be for letter grade, unless the course is only offered Pass/No Pass.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Minimum grade for all major requirements is C.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Course Level Requirement</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">A minimum of 3 credits of studio art and 3 credits of art history must be taken in courses numbered above 299.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules, Transfer Credit Rules</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">No more than 6 hours of independent study courses (ARTP 395, ARTP 495, ARTP 496, ARTP 499H; AHIS 390, AHIS 392, AHIS 395, AHIS 490, AHIS 492, AHIS 495, AHIS 499H) may count toward the major in the BA degree.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">At least 12 credit hours in studio art and 9 credit hours in art history of the required BA courses must be taken at UNL. Courses taken at other academic institutions may be substituted for the remaining required courses subject to evaluation by the department.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Time and Credit Guidelines</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>The Department of Art and Art History adheres to the following time and credit guidelines established by the National Association of Schools of Art and Design (NASAD):</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">In studio courses, one hour of credit represents three hours of work each week of the 16-week semester. Two of the hours are spent in class with the instructor, and one hour of additional work is expected outside of regularly scheduled class time.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">In lecture/discussion courses, one hour of credit represents one hour each week in class, and two hours each week of work outside of class for the duration of the 16-week semester.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>BFA Degree</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">All courses taken for major requirements must be for letter grade, unless the course is only offered Pass/No Pass.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Minimum grade for all major requirements is C.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Course Level Requirement</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">A minimum of 3 credits of art history must be taken in courses numbered above 299.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules, Transfer Credit Rules</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">No more than 9 hours of independent study courses (ARTP 395, ARTP 495, ARTP 496, ARTP 499H; AHIS 390, AHIS 392, AHIS 395, AHIS 490, AHIS 492, AHIS 495, AHIS 499H) may count toward the major in the BFA degree.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">At least 36 credit hours in studio art and 9 credit hours in art history of the required BFA courses must be taken at UNL. Courses taken at other academic institutions may be substituted for the remaining required courses subject to evaluation by the department.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Plan A minor in Art – 18 credits</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AHIS 101 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AHIS 102 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism II 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Studio Electives 12</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ARTP 101 Fundamentals of Art (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CERM 131 Ceramics for Non-Majors (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>DRAW 101 Beginning Drawing (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PHOT 161 Photography for Non-Majors (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PRNT 141 Printmaking for Non-Majors (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>SCLP 111 Sculpture for Non-Majors (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Plan B minor in Art – 12 credits</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Studio Electives 12</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ARTP 101 Fundamentals of Art (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CERM 131 Ceramics for Non-Majors (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>DRAW 101 Beginning Drawing (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PHOT 161 Photography for Non-Majors (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PRNT 141 Printmaking for Non-Majors (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>SCLP 111 Sculpture for Non-Majors (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Up to 6 hours of Pass/No Pass may be taken in the minor.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
