<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Business Minor for Raikes (ENGR)</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="business-minor-for-raikes-engr-">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Business Minor for Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science &amp; Management (ENGR)</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Business Minor for Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Minor only</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 29</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">This minor is applicable ONLY to students participating in the Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The College of Engineering enables its students to participate in this approved minor subject to the following conditions:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">1. A minor will not reduce or alter the existing course or degree requirements for students electing to pursue a minor.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">2. A student’s minor program must be organized and approved by an adviser prior to the submission of the senior check to the department chair or head.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">3. The minor must be approved by the adviser, the department chair or head, the Dean and the cognizant program offering the minor.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">4. The College of Engineering will follow the “Plan A/B” format of the Arts and Sciences College in which a student pursuing a single minor must complete the “Plan A” requirements. A student pursuing a double (or greater) minor must fulfill either the “Plan A” or “Plan B” requirements for both minors depending on which plan is offered by the cognizant department.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">5. Minors on the Lincoln or Omaha campuses may be added by approval of the College of Engineering Curriculum Committee and faculty.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All courses must be taken for a letter grade.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Required Foundation Courses 16-17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106, MATH 107, or MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I, II or III 4-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">STAT 218 Intro to Statistics </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> STAT 380 Statistics &amp; Applications </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> <br />IMSE 321 Engineering Statistics &amp; Data Analysis 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">RAIK 181H Honors: Foundations of Business I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">RAIK 182H Honors: Foundations of Business II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">RAIK 281H Honors: Business Systems &amp; Operations I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Required Business Core Courses 12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 341 Marketing 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">RAIK 282H Honors: Business Systems &amp; Operations II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">RAIK 381H Honors: Advanced Topics in Business I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">RAIK 382H Honors: Advanced Topics in Business II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total hours for the RAIK/BSAD minor 28-29</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
