<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Business Administration.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="business-administration">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Business Administration</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Business Administration</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Business Administration</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 hours for degree (24 hours for the major) </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.5 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes–for non business students only</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> D’vee Buss</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The business administration major is designed for students who wish to obtain a broad education in business administration rather than specializing in a specific area within the College. For the student who has an educational goal that bridges two or more areas of business, the general business administration major permits the design of a tailor-made program to fit that goal.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSION</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Major/Department Admission</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University Admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Core Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 24 hours of course work for the major.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>As noted in the College Degree Requirements section, all course work for the major must be taken for a grade.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>No departmental 399/499 courses may count toward the business administration major.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Specific Major Requirements</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students interested in pursuing the bachelor of science degree with a major in business administration are to complete 24 hours of 300/400-level business course work for the Business Core Advanced-Major (BCA-M) to be selected from course work offered by:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Accounting</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Economics</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Finance</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Management or Supply Chain</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Marketing</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>As part of the 24 hour requirement:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Course work must be from the 300/400-level with the course work selected from the following approved list.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">A MINIMUM of 3 hours from each of five departments must be represented.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">A MINIMUM of 6 hours from each of three departments must be represented.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">A MINIMUM of 12 hours must be taken at the 400 level.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Departmental 499s (unless an honors thesis) may NOT be used toward the major.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Accounting: </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ACCT 308 Managerial Accounting</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ACCT 309 Accounting Systems</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ACCT 313 Intermediate Accounting I</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ACCT 314 Intermediate Accounting II</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Any 400-level accounting course work</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Economics:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 311 Intermediate Macroeconomics</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 312 Intermediate Microeconomics</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 321 Intro to International Economics </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Any 400-level economics course work</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Finance:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>FINA 338 Principles of Corporate Risk Management</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>FINA 363 Investment Principles </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>FINA 365 Financial Institutions &amp; Markets </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Any 400-level finance or actuarial science course work </p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Management:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT/ENTR 321 Entrepreneurship &amp; Innovation in Organizations</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 361 Human Resource Management</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 311 Leadership, Communications, &amp; Teams</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>SCMS 335 Supply Chain Decision Making Models </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Any 400-level management or supply chain management course work </p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Marketing:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 346 Marketing Channels Management </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 347 Marketing Communication Strategy</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 345 Market Research </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 350 Marketing Information Systems</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 355 Marketing Metrics</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Any 400-level marketing course work</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Additional Restrictions: </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students who earn BSAD 491 (6 hrs) from the Senshu (Japan) study abroad program may substitute 6 hours of BSAD 491 toward the second course in two of the three required departments. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students who earn BSAD 491 (3 hrs) from the CBA China study abroad program may substitute 3 hours of BSAD 491 toward the second course in one of the three required departments. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students who earn BSAD 491 (3 hrs) from the CBA CIMBA (Italy) study abroad program may substitute 3 hours of BSAD 491 toward the second course in one of the three required departments. </p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Enrollment in any upper-level course work offered by the departments requires completion of appropriate prerequisites. Refer to course descriptions for specific course prerequisites.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>C- and D Grades</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Same as College grade rules.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Same as College Pass/No Pass limits.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>GPA Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Same as College GPA requirements.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>General Business Minor—Plan A Only</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>The minor consists of the following 18 hours:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ACCT 200 Accounting for Business Decisions (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 200 Economic Essentials &amp; Issues (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>BLAW 300 Business Government &amp; Society (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>FINA 300 Financial Decision Making (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 300 Management Essentials for Contemporary Organizations (3 hrs) </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 300 Contemporary Marketing (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Please note the following information.</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">This minor is available to all other colleges at UNL.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Only nonbusiness students can complete this minor.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Courses in the minor can’t be used towards a degree in business</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Prerequisites are enforced.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">No more than one course may be transferred into the minor. The number of courses is calculated on the course replaced. If ACCT 201 and ACCT 202 are used to replace ACCT 200, it is one course</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Students with previous credit in business should see their college adviser for further information.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>OTHER </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All students enrolling in CBA courses are required to meet the prerequisites listed for each course, including any specific grade or GPA requirement, to include junior standing, as well as expected completion of the BCF and BCI for enrollment in most 300 or 400-level business courses. This includes the required course work in information systems, communications, mathematics and statistics, accounting, and economics as well as marketing, finance, production, MIS, human resources, and business law prior to enrolling in course work for their major.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Business Administration majors are not eligible to add an International Business minor.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
