<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Civil Engineering</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="civil-engineering">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Civil Engineering</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Civil Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 130</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Andrzej S. Nowak </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Interim Chair: Bruce I. Dvorak</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Chair:</span><span class="generated-style"> Stansbury</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Dahab, Dvorak, Nowak, Rilett, Sicking, Tuan, Zhang</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Admiraal, Bartelt-Hunt, Guo, Jones, Khattak, Kim, Krause, Moussavi, Rohde, Stansbury, Szerszen</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Irmak, X. Li, Y. Li, Sharma</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department of Civil Engineering offers a complete undergraduate program to students on the Lincoln and Omaha campuses of the University of Nebraska. Curriculum requirements are nearly identical on both campuses. The goal is to prepare students for entry into the civil engineering profession immediately after graduation or to pursue graduate-level work.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The general educational objectives of the University of Nebraska–Lincoln civil engineering undergraduate program are to prepare our graduates to:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">APPLY</span><span class="generated-style"> their solid foundation in civil engineering toward the practice and to obtain an advanced-degree education toward a broad range of career choices;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">PERFORM</span><span class="generated-style"> technical analysis or design of a complex system, component or process as acting representatives of governmental agencies, private consulting engineering firms, research organizations or industry;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">EXPLAIN</span><span class="generated-style"> engineering concepts accurately and effectively to inform technical and non-technical audiences using appropriate verbal, written, virtual and graphical means; </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">APPLY</span><span class="generated-style"> basic project management and business concepts and processes;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">ENGAGE</span><span class="generated-style"> in lifelong learning to foster technical growth, ethical conduct, and the practice of professional communication, teamwork and leadership skills; and</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">OBTAIN</span><span class="generated-style"> licensure in a profession, such as civil engineering, after the requisite number of years of practice.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">As a professional discipline, civil engineering is closely related to the total human environment. In all professional endeavors, the civil engineer must consider ecological effects as well as the social, economic, and political needs of people. The civil engineer designs systems to control and manage our water resources to provide electric power, agricultural irrigation, flood control, recreation, water supplies and wastewater treatment systems for our urban and industrial needs.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The civil engineer plans, designs, and constructs our transportation systems including highways, railroads, waterways, and airports to connect rural, urban, and industrial areas. The civil engineer also designs and constructs housing and facilities for recreational, industrial, and commercial complexes, which comprise the urban environment. It is the responsibility of civil engineering to minimize air, water, and land pollution and protect the environment.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Instructional emphasis is placed on fundamental engineering principles derived from mathematics, chemistry, physics, and engineering science. These subjects provide a sound background for the subsequent introductory courses in environmental, geotechnical, structural, transportation, and water resources engineering. Students are introduced to design concepts in the freshman year. Design is incorporated throughout the curriculum that culminates in two senior-level courses, CIVE 385 Professional Practice and Management in Civil Engineering and CIVE 489 Senior Design Project.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Instructional laboratories in environmental engineering, hydraulics, geotechnical engineering, structures, and surveying provide each student with an opportunity to learn, through individual participation, the operation of the testing equipment used to establish engineering design criteria and to monitor and model engineering facilities such as water and wastewater treatment plants, river control systems, and structural systems.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Some students may desire to obtain a degree in construction management in addition to the degree in civil engineering. Because some civil engineering courses require prerequisites beyond those required for similar construction management courses, students should obtain the civil engineering degree first. Advising will be done by a civil engineering faculty member familiar with the construction management curriculum. After completing the civil engineering degree, the student will move to the construction management department to complete requirements for the second undergraduate degree in construction management.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Departments of Civil Engineering and Architecture have a joint program awarding licensing degrees in both fields of study. A bachelors degree in civil engineering and masters degree in architecture are awarded, after approximately seven years of study. The departments work with individual students in tailoring a joint degree program. More information can be obtained from either department office.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering (Lincoln and Omaha campuses)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must have completed the equivalent of the third semester before admission to the civil engineering program. Transfer students must have all transfer hours accepted before being considered for the degree program.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">First Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 112 Intro to Civil Engineering 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 155N Computer Science I: Engineering &amp; Science Focus 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry Elective 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Chemistry elective must be CHEM 111, CHEM 113, or both CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 (8 hrs). </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Second Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 130 Computer-aided Design 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">MECH 130 is an acceptable substitute. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 221 Geometric Control Systems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Third Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 223 Engineering Statics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Either CHEM 114 &amp; CHEM 116, or CHEM 221 are acceptable substitutes. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fourth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 361 Highway Engineering 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 325 Mechanics of Elastic Bodies 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 373 Engineering Dynamics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 221 Differential Equations for Engineers 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fifth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 310 Fluid Mechanics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 319 Hydraulics Lab 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 326 Intro to Environmental Engineering 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 327 Environmental Engineering Lab 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 341 Intro to Structural Engineering 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 380 Statistics &amp; Applications </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> IMSE 321 Engineering Statistics &amp; <br />Data Analysis 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Sixth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 334 Intro to Geotechnical Engineering 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 352 Intro to Water Resources Engineering 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 378 Materials of Construction 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 385 Professional Practice &amp; Management 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Seventh Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Technical Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> A description of allowable technical elective courses is available from the civil engineering department. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Design Electives 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">A full list of approved elective courses is available from the department. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Science Elective 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Approved science elective courses include BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L, CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253, and GEOL 101. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Eighth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 489 Senior Design Project 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Technical Electives 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> A description of allowable technical elective courses is available from the civil engineering department. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Design Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">A full list of approved elective courses is available from the civil engineering department. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional Development Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> A full list of approved professional development elective courses is available from the civil engineering department. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Credit Hours Required 130</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Design Electives</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 419 Flow Systems Design (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 425 Process Design in Water Supply &amp; Wastewater Treatment (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 426 Design of Water Treatment Facilities (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 427 Design of Wastewater Treatment &amp; Disposal Facilities (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 436 Foundation Engineering (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 440 Reinforced Concrete Design I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 441 Steel Design I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 452 Water Resources Development (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 462 Highway Design (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 463 Traffic Control System Design (3 cr)</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
