<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Classics &amp; Religious Studies.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="classics-religious-studies">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Classics &amp; Religious Studies</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Classics &amp; Religious Studies</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes–Classics; Religious Studies</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISERS:</span> Yaroslav Komarovski (Religious Studies); Thomas Rinkevich (Classics)</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Stephen G. Burnett,</span> 237 Andrews Hall</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> S. Crawford, Turner</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Athanassopoulos (anthropology), Burnett, Duncan, Gorman, Lahey, Rinkevich, Wood</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span> Komarvoski</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Senior Lecturer:</span> D. Crawford</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override">The courses and majors in the Department of Classics and Religious Studies have been designed to meet the needs of three categories of students: </span></p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override">1 Those who wish to pursue the subjects for general educational purposes; </span></p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>2 Those who plan to major and do graduate work in classics or religious studies;</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>3 Those who want to become high school Latin teachers.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Any student who studies classics and religious studies will acquire the basic elements of a liberal education and a beneficial background for study in professional schools.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>The Major in Classics and Religious Studies</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The classics and religious studies major offers a wide range of courses in the civilization, religions and culture of the ancient Mediterranean world, as well as ancient and modern religions broadly conceived. It is an interdisciplinary major with two areas of emphasis, one in Classics and one in Religious Studies. Depending on your chosen emphasis, this major is designed to provide you with an excellent background to pursue graduate work in classical languages and literature, classical archaeology, ancient history, religious studies, literary scholarship, and other humane disciplines. In addition, the broad and humane education offered by the major serves as excellent preparation for careers in law, medicine, journalism, religion, business and education.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>The Major in Classical Languages</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This major is intended primarily for those interested in graduate study of the Greco-Roman world. As competency in both Greek and Latin is requisite for graduate study, students must take courses in both languages to complete the major. This major is also appropriate for students who wish to undertake advanced study in related fields such as linguistics, or to teach high school Latin.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Education Abroad.</span> Advanced undergraduates are encouraged to further their education abroad. Students may choose from among several established programs that cover a full academic year, semester, or summer. Most ancient studies programs offer a variety of courses in classics, ancient and modern languages, and history. In addition, students are introduced to the archaeology and art of the culture by frequent trips to sites and museums. These programs include, but are not limited to the American School of Classical Studies at Athens, College Year in Athens, the Intercollegiate Center for Classical Studies in Rome, and The Hebrew University in Jerusalem.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Also, UNL faculty frequently offer archaeological study tours to Greece, Italy, Turkey and Egypt during the summers. The department administers the Clarence A. Forbes Fellowship for education abroad. Further information on education abroad scholarships and programs may be found at http://educationabroad.unl.edu.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Core Requirements</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Core Courses</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 180 Classical Mythology (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 283 Epic Tales: The World’s Heros &amp; Gods (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 286 Literature of the Ancient Near East (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 305 Ancient Greek Religions (RELG 305) (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 307 Early Christianity (HIST 307/RELG 307) (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 312 Pagans &amp; Christians in the Roman Empire (RELG 312) (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 331 Ancient Israel (HIST 331/JUDS 331/RELG 331) (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 181 Judaism, Christianity, &amp; Islam (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Specific Major Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The major requires 30 hours of courses. Students will choose 9 hours from the Core Course list above. In addition, each student will choose an emphasis in either Classics or Religious Studies (described below). Twelve hours must be taken at the 300 level or above. The student may count up to 6 hours above the 100 level in Greek, Latin, Hebrew, or Arabic toward the major. No more than 6 hours of independent study may count toward the major. A minor is required and may be any Plan A minor approved by the College.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required:</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. To assemble and maintain a portfolio to include the syllabus and a copy of all written exams and assignments for each course applied toward the major.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. In their senior year, to complete a written exit survey.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The undergraduate adviser will inform students of the scheduling and format of assessment activities.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Results of participation in these assessment activities will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Requirements for the Emphasis in Classics</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students may divide their courses among the following areas, provided 6 hours are taken in each area. Core courses may also count toward the area requirements.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Area A. Arts and Archaeology</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>AHIS 211 Classical Art &amp; Archaeology</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>AHIS 311 Greek Art &amp; Archaeology</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>AHIS 313 Roman Art &amp; Archaeology</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>AHIS 411 Classical Architecture</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>AHIS 413 Roman Painting</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 252 Archaeology of World Civilizations (ANTH 252)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 320 The Classical World: Archaeology &amp; Texts</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 438/838 Topics in Old World Prehistory (ANTH 438)</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Area B. Language, Thought, and Literature</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 180 Classical Mythology</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 183 Heros, Harlots &amp; Helots</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 281 The World of Classical Greece (ENGL 240A)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 282 The World of Classical Rome (ENGL 240B)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 283 Epic Tales: The World’s Heros &amp; Gods</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 286 Literature of the Ancient Near East</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 381 Ancient Novel (ENGL 381)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 409 Religion of Late Western Antiquity (HIST 409/RELG 409)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 483 Classical Drama (ENGL 440)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGL 340 Classical Roots of English Literature</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>PHIL 231 History of Philosophy (Ancient)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>PHIL 336 Ethics: Ancient &amp; Medieval</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>PHIL 337 Knowledge: Ancient &amp; Medieval</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>PHIL 338 Metaphysics: Ancient &amp; Medieval</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>PHIL 450 Ancient Philosophy</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Area C. Historical Studies</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 141 Spectacle &amp; Entertainment in the Roman World</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 233 Science in the Classical World</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 245 War in the Classical World</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 305 Ancient Greek Religions (RELG 305)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 307 Early Christianity (HIST 307/RELG 307)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 312 Pagans &amp; Christians in the Roman Empire (RELG 312)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 315 Medieval World: Byzantium (HIST 315)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 331 Ancient Israel (HIST 331/JUDS 331/RELG 331)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 440 Gender &amp; Sexuality in the Ancient World (WMNS 440)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 210 Ancient Rome</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 311 Homer &amp; the Trojan War</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 317 The Roman Empire</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 412 Democracy &amp; Tyranny in Classical Athens</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 417 The Roman Revolution, 133 BCE-68 CE</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Requirements for the Emphasis in Religious Studies</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students may divide their courses among the following areas, provided 6 hours are taken in each area. Core courses may also count toward the area requirements.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Area D. The Nature of Religion</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 125W Religion, Peace &amp; Social Justice</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 150 Explaining Religion</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 206 Ways of Western Religion</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 220 Reason &amp; Religion</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 225 Science &amp; Religion</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 310 Great Ideas in Religious Thought: From God to Nothingness</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 350 Issues in the Theory &amp; Study of Religion</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 418 Fundamentalism, Religion, &amp; Politics</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>PHIL 265 Philosophy of Religion</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>PHIL 338 Metaphysics: Ancient &amp; Medieval</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>SOCI 452 Sociology of Religion</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Area E. Scriptural Studies</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 205 Intro to the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament (JUDS 205)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 212W Life &amp; Letters of Paul</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 217 Israel: The Holy Land (HIST 217/JUDS 217)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 307 Early Christianity (CLAS 307/HIST 307)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 308 Dead Sea Scrolls (JUDS 308)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 331 Ancient Israel (CLAS 331/HIST 331/JUDS 331)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 340 Women in the Biblical World (JUDS 340/WMNS 340)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 406 Second Temple Judaism (JUDS 406)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGL 341 The Bible as Literature</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Area F. The Study of Religious Traditions</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 108 World Religions</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 118 Intro to Asian Religions</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 130W Women &amp; Religion</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 134W Religious Diversity in the United States</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 181 Judaism, Christianity &amp; Islam</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 208 Intro to Islam</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override">RELG 209 Judaism &amp; Christianity in Conflict &amp; Coexistence (JUDS 209)</span></p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 218 Intro to Buddhism</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 230 Tibetan Buddhism</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 305 Ancient Greek Religions (CLAS 305)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 318 Islam in the Modern World</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 332 Jews in the Middle Ages (HIST 332/JUDS 332)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 334 Jews, Christians &amp; the Bible (JUDS 334)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 351 Death, Immortality &amp; Transcendence in Asian Religions</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 370 Religion &amp; Reform: Utopian &amp; Communal Societies in America (ANTH 370)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 409 Religion of Late Western Antiquity (CLAS 409/HIST 409)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 410 Gnosticism (CLAS 410)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 489 Medieval Literature &amp; Theology (ENGL 489)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 286 Literature of the Ancient Near East</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CLAS 312 Pagans &amp; Christians in the Roman Empire (RELG 312)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 214 History of Islam (RELG 214)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 216 History of Christianity (RELG 216)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 219 Intro to Jewish History (JUDS 219/RELG 219)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 421 The German Reformation</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>JUDS 350 Literature of Judaism</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MUSC 451 Music &amp; the Church</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MUSC 452 Hymnology</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Departmental permission to take major or minor courses for Pass/No Pass credit must be obtained. Request forms are available in the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Requirements for the Minor in Classics</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A minimum of 18 hours in the courses listed in A, B, and C. At least 3 hours must be taken from each area, and at least 9 of those hours must be CLAS. At least 6 hours must be above 299.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Requirements for the Minor in Religious Studies</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A minimum of 18 hours in the courses listed in D, E, and F. At least 3 hours must be taken from each area, and at least 9 of those hours must be RELG. At least 6 hours must be above 299.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
