<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Computational Biology &amp; Bioinformatics Minor 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="computational-biology-bioinformatics-minor-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Computational Biology &amp; Bioinformatics Minor</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering, Arts &amp; Sciences, Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Computational Biology &amp; Bioinformatics (Minor only) </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 18</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator:</span> Computer Science and Engineering Department, 256 Avery Hall, Phone: (402) 472-2401, Email: cbb@unl.edu.</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Steering Committee: </span>Etsuko Moriyama (SBS), Stephen E. Reichenbach (CSE), Stephen D. Kachman (Statistics), Jeyamkondan Subbiah (BSE)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This interdisciplinary minor prepares students to understand, use, and develop advanced computational methods and tools for processing, visualizing, and analyzing biological data and for modeling biological processes. Studies in computational biology and bioinformatics involve biosciences, computer science, engineering, mathematics, and statistics. Students will be prepared for careers in biomedical, biotechnology, agricultural, pharmaceutical, and engineering fields and for related graduate studies.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">18 hours:</span> Includes 13 hours for the core courses and at minimum 5 hours from elective courses are required.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Foundation courses</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>The following courses are required for the CBB minor students to have the necessary foundations towards the minor. These courses are also the prerequisites to the core courses listed below:</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 109 General Chemistry I (4 cr) or equivalent</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L Fundamentals of Biology I &amp; Lab (4 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I (5 cr) or equivalent</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Core courses (13 hours)*</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 155T Computer Science I (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 311 Data Structures &amp; Algorithms for Informatics (3 cr) <span class="requirement-ital">(starts Spring 2012)</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 237 Basic Application of Bioinformatics (4 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>STAT 218 Intro to Statistics or STAT 380 Statistics &amp; Applications (3 cr) <span class="requirement-ital">(special section of STAT 218 for CBB minor may be offered in Fall 2011)**</span></p>
			<p class="asterisk" xml:lang='en-us'>*These requirements can be replaced with equivalent courses upon approval except for BIOS 237, which cannot be replaced.</p>
			<p class="asterisk" xml:lang='en-us'>**Students are strongly encouraged to take STAT 218 or STAT 380. However, ELEC 305 (Probability Theory &amp; Intro to Random Processes) can be used to satisfy this requirement subject to approval.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Elective courses: Two courses (5 hours minimum) at 400 levels</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Take one each from Life Science electives and Computer Science/Mathematics/Statistics/Engineering (CMSE) electives in the following lists. These lists will be updated periodically. Similar courses can be used to fulfill elective requirements upon approval by the CBB Minor steering committee.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">For life science major students, those courses listed as LS elective 2 cannot be used for CBB requirements. For students in computer science, mathematics, engineering, and related majors, those courses listed as CMSE elective 2 cannot be used for CBB requirements.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Life Science elective courses</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>LS elective 1: for students in life science majors</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 427 Practical Bioinformatics Laboratory (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 428 Perl Programming for Biological Applications (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 456 Mathematical Models in Biology (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 477 Bioinformatics &amp; Molecular Evolution (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>STAT 442 Computational Biology (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>LS elective 2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 431 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism (4 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 432 Gene Expression &amp; Replication (2 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 434 Plant Biochemistry (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 420 Molecular Genetics (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 425 Plant Biotechnology (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 429 Phylogenetic Biology (4 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 472 Evolution (4 cr)</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Computer Science/Mathematics/Statistics/Engineering Electives</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CMSE elective 1: for students in computer science major</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 471 Intro to Bioinformatics (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CMSE elective 2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BSEN 414 Medical Imaging Systems (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHME 473 Biochemical Engineering (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 474 Advanced Biochemical Engineering (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 410 Information Retrieval Systems (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 413 Database Systems (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 421 Foundations of Constraint Processing </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 423 Algorithms (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 435 Cluster &amp; Grid Computing (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 456 Parallel Programming (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 471 Digital Image Processing (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 474 Intro to Data Mining (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 476 Intro to Artificial Intelligence (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 478 Intro to Machine Learning (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 479 Intro to Neural Networks (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 439 Mathematical Models in Biology (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 452 Graph Theory (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>STAT 412 Intro to Experimental Design</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>STAT 450 Intro to Regression Analysis</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
