<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Construction Engineering 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="construction-engineering-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Construction Engineering</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Construction Engineering</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Construction Engineering</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 128</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Durham School of Architectural Engineering and Construction</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">School Director: Eddy M. Rojas</span></p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Coordinator: </span>George Morcous</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Foster, Sires</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Bernstein, Bonsell, Goedert, Harmon, Jensen, Schwer</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Lau, Norton, Pedersen</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Construction engineering (CONE) is a program of the Charles W. Durham School of Architectural Engineering and Construction. The construction engineering major integrates engineering, construction, and management courses. This program is designed for persons fulfilling the construction industry’s need for licensed professional engineers. It resembles the construction management program but provides a greater emphasis on engineering, scientific, and technical courses so that requirements for licensure are met. The courses in construction engineering focus on the application of engineering principles to solve real world construction problems.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The educational objective of the construction engineering program is to produce graduates who possess lifelong knowledge acquisition skills enabling them to add value to society throughout their construction careers by applying engineering principles of analysis and design to the constructed environment and using appropriate construction practices including business organization, estimating, scheduling, project delivery, and ethics.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Under the stimulus of increasing demand for its services globally, the construction industry has expanded its technological capabilities pertaining to physical and informational systems. This demand gives the construction engineering graduate an unprecedented number of opportunities for employment and for pursuing an advanced degree.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Construction engineers participate in the preparation of engineering and architectural plans and specifications which they translate into finished projects, such as buildings, bridges, highways, power plants, or other constructed facilities. These projects involve thousands of details shared by a team of owners, architects, engineers, general constructors, specialty constructors, manufacturers, material suppliers, equipment distributors, regulatory bodies and agencies, labor resources, and numerous others. The constructor assumes responsibility for delivery of the completed project at a specified time and cost and also accepts associated legal, financial, and management obligations. Because of the broad scope of the construction engineer’s project responsibility, he/she must assure the project’s ability to be constructed as well as its ability to be operated and sustained.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The construction engineering student is required to enroll into a predetermined set of courses specifically designed for general construction education. Each student selects, with the approval of his/her adviser, a set of approved electives. The program outlined below leads to the bachelor of science degree in construction engineering.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students are required to enroll in a predetermined set of courses specifically designed for general construction education. Each student selects, with the approval of his/her adviser, a set of approved electives. </p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>First Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 109 General Chemistry I 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CONE 103 Intro to Construction Engineering 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 155E Computer Science I: Systems Engineering Focus 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGR 10 Freshman Engineering Seminar 0</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 16</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Second Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CIVE 130 Computer-aided Design 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 221 General Physics Lab 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Third Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CIVE 221 Geometric Control Systems 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MECH 223 Engineering Statics 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 17</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Fourth Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CONE 211 Construction Business Methods 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BSEN 206 Engineering Economics 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MECH 325 Mechanics of Elastic Bodies 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MECH 373 Engineering Dynamics 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Fifth Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CIVE 310 Fluid Mechanics 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CIVE 341 Intro to Structural Engineering 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CONE 319 Construction Methods &amp; Equipment 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CONE 378 Construction Estimating I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 380 Statistics &amp; Applications 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 16</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Sixth Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CIVE 334 Intro to Geotechnical Engineering 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CIVE 378 Materials of Construction 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 211 Elements of Electrical Engineering 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 16</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Seventh Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CIVE 440 Reinforced Concrete Design I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CONE 414 Accident Prevention in Construction 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CONE 476 Project Budgets &amp; Controls 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override">CONE 485 Construction Planning, Scheduling, &amp; Controls 3</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Technical Design Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 18</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Eighth Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CIVE 441 Steel Design I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CONE 489 Construction Engineering Capstone Course 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BLAW 371 Legal Environment 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Technical Design Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total Credit Hours Required 128</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All course work must be of “C” grade level or higher to be credited toward graduation requirements or to be valid as a prerequisite for another course.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives–Technical and Design</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CONE 416 Wood &amp;/or Miscellaneoud Materials Design 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CONE 417 Formwork Systems 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CONE 466/866 Heavy &amp;/or Civil Estimating 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CONE 481/881 Highway &amp; Bridge Construction 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CONE 483/883 Support of Excavation 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override">CONE 485/885 Temporary Construction 3</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CONE 498 Special Topics 1-6</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Course Substitutions and Suggestions </p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">PHYS 222 is an acceptable substitute if taken with PHYS 212.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Suitable equivalent probability and statistics courses can be substituted with the approval of the student’s adviser.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Suitable technical electives selected with concurrence of adviser selected from the following: EMEC 4480, EMEC 4600, EMEC 4800; MENG 2000, MENG 4200 and their UNL equivalents. Other College of Engineering courses approved by the student’s adviser can satisfy this requirement.</li>
			</ul>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
