<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Construction Management 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="construction-management-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Construction Management</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Construction Management</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Construction Management</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Durham School of Architectural Engineering and Construction</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">School Director: Eddy M. Rojas</span></p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Coordinator:</span> Wayne Jensen</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Fischer, Grosskopf, Harmon, Jensen, Stentz, Wentz</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span> Ahn, Shen</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Construction is the largest and most diversified industry in the country, accounting for approximately 10 percent of the gross national product. The key professional in this vast enterprise is the “constructor”, a term given to the leaders and managers in the construction industry, having the responsibility for planning, scheduling, and building the projects designed by architects and engineers. These highly specialized efforts are indispensable in meeting the country’s growing need for new structures and environmental control projects.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Construction firms vary in size from large corporations to small proprietorships and partnerships. These are often classified according to the kind of construction work they do: general contractors, heavy and highway contractors, specialty contractors including mechanical and electrical, and residential builders and developers. Many firms engage in more than one category of work. Some larger companies incorporate the architectural and engineering design functions as part of their activity as a design/build firm. Collectively, Constructors build our entire man-made environment–buildings for housing, commerce, industry, and government; transportation services including highways, railroads, waterways, and airports; municipal service facilities and utilities, such as power plants and energy distribution systems; military bases and space center complexes. Thus the construction management field is broad and challenging, requiring a unique educational background for its professional practitioners.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Educational standards and criteria for construction education are established by the American Council for Construction Education (ACCE) which is the accrediting agency for construction education programs at all levels. The program at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, having met these standards and criteria, is currently fully accredited by ACCE.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Although the range of construction activities appears wide and diverse, the general educational requirements for construction management are universal regardless of a particular firm’s area of specialization. Since construction is primarily a business enterprise, the graduate must have a sound background in business management and administration areas, as well as an understanding of the fundamentals of architecture and engineering as they relate to the project design itself as well as to the actual construction process in the field. Professional expertise lies in the fields of construction science, methods, and management. A working knowledge of structural design, mechanical and electrical systems, soil mass behavior, and construction equipment is also essential.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The construction management curriculum embraces a course of study in specifications, contractual agreements, labor relations, personnel management, materials, methods, and work analysis techniques. Technical and humanity electives provide for a well-rounded education that leads to a challenging career in the construction industry.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students interested in obtaining a degree in civil engineering and construction management are advised to enroll in civil engineering. Because some civil engineering courses require prerequisites beyond those required for similar construction management courses, students should obtain a civil engineering degree first. While in civil engineering, they will be advised by an adviser familiar with the construction management curriculum. After completing requirements for the civil engineering degree, the student will move to the construction management department to complete the requirements for the second degree in construction management.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Requirements for the Degree (Lincoln campus)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Construction management students must pass all courses offered within the College of Engineering and all math and science courses with a grade of “C” or higher. Students must complete 28 semester hours or be classified as a sophomore before applying for admission to the construction management degree program. In addition, all seniors must take a program exit examination along with the American Institute of Constructors’ Level I examination before graduation.</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>First Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 131 Intro to the Construction Industry 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGR 10 Freshman Engineering Seminar 0</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGL 151 Writing: Rhetoric as Argument 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>GEOL 101 Physical Geology 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, or 9.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 16</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Second Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 112 Construction Communications 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>JGEN 200 Technical Communications I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>STAT 218 Intro to Statistics 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 151 Elements of Physics 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 153 Elements of Physics Lab 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 14</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Third Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CIVE 221 Geometric Control Systems 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 241 Construction Methods &amp; Equipment I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 252 Construction Materials &amp; Testing 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 200 Economic Essentials &amp; Issues 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGM 220 Statics 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Fourth Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACCT 200 Accounting for Business Decisions 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 242 Construction Equipment &amp; Methods II 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 251 Construction Materials &amp; Specifications 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGM 324 Strength of Materials 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Fifth Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ARCH 331 Architectural Structures I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BLAW 300 Business, Government &amp; Society 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 305 Building Environmental Technical Systems I (ARCH 333) 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 378 Construction Estimating I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 300 Management Essentials for Contemporary Organizations 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Sixth Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ARCH 332 Architectural Structures II 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 306 Physical Environmental Systems II 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 379 Construction Estimating II 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>FINA 300 Financial Decision Making 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, or 9.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Seventh Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 300 Contemporary Marketing 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 476 Project Budgets &amp; Controls 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 480 Productivity &amp; Human Factors in Construction 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 485 Construction Planning, Scheduling, &amp; Controls 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Technical Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Eighth Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 420 Professional Practice &amp; Ethics 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 489 Senior Construction Project 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Construction Management Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, or 9.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Technical Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total Credit Hours Required 120</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>This minor is for engineering majors ONLY.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>The College of Engineering enables its students to participate in this approved minor subject to the following conditions:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. A minor will not reduce or alter the existing course or degree requirements for students electing to pursue a minor.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. A student’s minor program must be organized and approved by an adviser prior to the submission of the senior check to the department chair or head.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. The minor must be approved by the adviser, the department chair or head, the Dean and the cognizant program offering the minor.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. The College of Engineering will follow the “Plan A/B” format of the Arts and Sciences College in which a student pursuing a single minor must complete the “Plan A” requirements. A student pursuing a double (or greater) minor must fulfill either the “Plan A” or “Plan B” requirements for both minors depending on which plan is offered by the cognizant department.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>5. Minors on the Lincoln or Omaha campuses may be added by approval of the College of Engineering Curriculum Committee and faculty.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Course Requirements</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A only.</span> All courses must be taken for a letter grade.</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Required Courses 27</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BLAW 300 Business, Government &amp; Society 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 112 Construction Communications 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 241 Construction Methods &amp; Equipment I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 305 Building Environmental Technical Systems I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 378 Construction Estimating I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 379 Construction Estimating II 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 480 Productivity &amp; Human Factors in Construction 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CNST 485 Construction Planning, Scheduling &amp; Controls 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 300 Management Essentials for Contemporary Organizations 3</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
