<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Criminology &amp; Criminal Justice</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="criminology-criminal-justice">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Criminology &amp; Criminal Justice</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Public Affairs and Community Service</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Criminology and Criminal Justice</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Criminology and Criminal Justice</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.5 to transfer to major; 2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Karen Fulton</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Dr. Candice Batton</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Director for Academic and Student Affairs:</span><span class="generated-style"> Karen Fulton, 310 Nebraska Hall, 402-472-3677</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Faculty:</span><span class="generated-style"> Anderson, Batton, Brauer, Brennan, Clinkinbeard, Crank, Eskridge, Hobbs, Hoffman, Hughes, Jacobs (emeriti), Kadleck, Marshall, Meier, Ogle, Sample, Savolainen, Simi, Spohn, Steiner, Wakefield, Walker (emeriti), Wright</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The School of Criminology and Criminal Justice provides its students with the foundation for entering many diversified criminal justice related careers including the courts, law, corrections and law enforcement. The school curriculum is composed of a broad range of ideas and interests, including courses in organization and administration, statistics, research methods, law enforcement, corrections, criminology, courts, juvenile delinquency, and law, as well as various special topics. Through the internship program, students can obtain work experience within various criminal justice agencies.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Although the bachelor of science in criminology and criminal justice degree can be earned in its entirety on the Lincoln campus, the degree is granted by the University of Nebraska at Omaha.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Degree at a Glance</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for the Bachelor of Science in Criminology and Criminal Justice (120 Hours)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements 48</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">English Composition 9 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Social Science 12 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Natural Science and Math 12 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Humanities and Fine Arts 12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Statistics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Major Requirements 39</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Concentration 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Electives 15 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">TOTAL 120</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Major/College Admission </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who have been admitted to the University may apply for entrance to the College of Public Affairs and Community Service as a Pre-Criminology and Criminal Justice major during initial registration by indicating their preference in the appropriate place on the University Application for Admission form. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who wish to transfer into the College from one of the schools or colleges within the University or from another institution must have a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.5.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Other Admission Requirements </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Criminology and Criminal Justice (PCCJ)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The first 45 hours of course work is defined as the PCCJ curriculum. Entering freshmen who declare PCCJ as their major must complete all of the 45 hour PCCJ curriculum with a minimum grade of C- in their criminology and criminal justice courses. These courses must include:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CRIM 101 (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CRIM 251 (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CRIM 203, CRIM 211 or CRIM 221 (6-9 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 101, ENGL 150, ENGL 151, ENGL 250, ENGL 252, ENGL 254, ENGL 258 (6 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 100A, MATH 101, MATH 103, MATH 104 or MATH 106 (3-5 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are encouraged to fulfill the remaining 19-24 hours with course work from their general distribution requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Upper Division Criminology and Criminal Justice (CRCJ)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students seeking entrance into the upper division criminology and criminal justice program (CRCJ) must apply to the School of Criminology and Criminal Justice. Students may apply with fewer than 45 hours if they are enrolled for the remaining hours during the semester in which they make application. In such cases, students may be granted admission contingent upon completion of the hours with a minimum grade of C- in their criminology and criminal justice courses.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Students Declaring Pre-Criminology and Criminal Justice</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students wishing to transfer from another institution or department within the University of Nebraska must have a 2.5 cumulative grade point average to declare pre-criminology and criminal justice. Transfer students must complete the PCCJ curriculum stipulated above and apply for admission to the School of Criminology and Criminal Justice before being admitted to the upper division CRCJ program. Students wishing to transfer are encouraged to contact the school for more details on the transfer policy.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The policies set out above are intended to apply to all students who seek admission to the upper division CRCJ program. For good cause shown, the school has the discretion to make exceptions to the admission policy.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Application forms may be obtained at the School of Criminology and Criminal Justice office. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Bachelor of Science in Criminology and Criminal Justice (BSCCJ)</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">A. English Composition (9 hours).</span><span class="generated-style"> Select 3-6 hours from: ENGL 101, ENGL 150, ENGL 151 (fulfills ACE 1 requirement). At least 3 credit hours must be in courses 200 level or higher selected from: ENGL 250, ENGL 252, ENGL 254, ENGL 258, or ENGL 354. Acceptable alternatives must be approved by the student’s adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">B. Social Science (12 hours).</span><span class="generated-style"> Courses will be selected from the departments of economics, gerontology, history, political science, psychology, educational psychology (EDPS 450, EDPS 451, EDPS 463), sociology, social work, anthropology, nonphysical geography, and child, youth and family studies (CYAF 160, CYAF 270, CYAF 271, CYAF 280) (see adviser for upper-level options). No more than 6 hours from any one department may be used to meet this requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">C. Natural Sciences and Mathematics (12 hours).</span><span class="generated-style"> Select one math course from MATH 100A, MATH 101, MATH 103, MATH 104 or MATH 106 and one natural science with lab course from ACE 4. Select additional courses from the following disciplines: astronomy, biological sciences, chemistry, computer science CSCE 101 or higher (CSCE labs do not fulfill the lab requirement), entomology, forensic science (FORS 120, FORS 300, FORS 414, FORS 445, FORS 446, FORS 407), geology, math (above 101), meteorology, nutrition (NUTR 131), and physical geography (GEOG 155).</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">D. Humanities and Fine Arts (12 hours).</span><span class="generated-style"> Select one 3-hour course from ACE 5 and one 3-hour course from ACE 7. An additional course may be selected from art and art history, classics, communication, dance, English literature, foreign languages, journalism, music, philosophy, religion, or theatre. Not more than 8 hours may be applied from any one department. Each student must also complete one 3-hour course in oral communication to be selected from: COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 286 (fulfills ACE 2 requirement).</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">E. Statistics (3 hours).</span><span class="generated-style"> Each student must complete one 3-hour course in basic statistics selected from CRIM 300 (recommended), EDPS 459, ECON 215, SOCI 206 or STAT 218 (fulfills ACE 3 requirement). Only one of these basic statistics courses may apply to the degree.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> CRIM 300 will not apply toward the 39 hours of required CRCJ courses.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Criminology and Criminal Justice Requirements (39 semester hours)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All candidates for the BSCCJ degree must complete CRIM 101 Survey of Criminal Justice (fulfills ACE 6 requirement), CRIM 251 Research Methods, and select 6-9 hours from CRIM 203 Police and Society, CRIM 211 Criminal Court System, and CRIM 221 Survey of Corrections. After admission to the Upper Division Program students must complete a minimum of 21 hours of upper division CRCJ courses including CRIM 335 Criminology and CRIM 351 Criminal Procedure.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A minimum grade of C- is required in criminology and criminal justice courses used as part of the 39-hour major requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are not required to complete an internship (CRIM 397), however, up to 6 hours of internship may be included in the program of study. Participation in the internship requires admission to the upper-division CRCJ program, 75 earned hours and a GPA of 2.5.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must register for and complete CRIM 499 (Senior Assessment) in the semester in which they plan to graduate.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Credit toward the degree may be earned in only one of the following: CRIM 251 or SOCI 205, CRIM 337 or SOCI 311, CRIM 413 or SOCI 474.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Concentration Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Area of Concentration (18 hours)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students will select an area of concentration with their advisers. At least 12 hours must be completed in upper division courses (300/400 level). Students who wish to integrate a minor into their program should work closely with their CRCJ adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Electives</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Elective Requirements (15 semester hours)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students may select electives after consultation with their adviser. Elective courses may include non-required criminology and criminal justice courses.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Ethical Principles, Civics and Stewardship </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each student must select one 3-hour course from ACE 8 which explains ethical principles, civics, and stewardship and their importance to society. This course may be applied toward the appropriate group requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Global Awareness/Diversity </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each student must select one 3-hour course from ACE 9 which exhibits global awareness or knowledge of human diversity through analysis of an issue. This course may be applied toward the appropriate group requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Creative or Scholarly Product </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each student must select one 3-hour course from ACE 10. This will typically be completed with a course in the major area.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Other Requirements/Rules</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The BSCCJ degree requires the completion of 120 semester hours of credit. A minimum of 30 of the last 36 credit hours must be earned by the student in residence within the University of Nebraska system. Summer independent study courses are not considered in residence.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">At least 21 hours of criminology and criminal justice must be taken at the University of Nebraska.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A maximum of 30 hours from any one department may be applied toward the BSCCJ degree.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A maximum of 6 credit hours for basic military training is applicable to the BSCCJ degree.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">C- and D Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A minimum grade of C- is required in criminology and criminal justice courses used as part of the 39-hour major requirement. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A maximum of 24 hours may be taken Pass/No Pass and none of the 39 hours required for the criminology and criminal justice major may be taken Pass/No Pass (excluding CRIM 397 Internship).</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A maximum of 25 credit hours from nontraditional or non classroom courses (correspondence, independent study, internet mediated) may be applied toward the BSCCJ degree.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A maximum of 12 credit hours of departmental independent study or internship courses may be applied toward the BSCCJ degree. Of these, no more than 6 hours from one department and no more than 6 hours from another institution.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Criminology and Criminal Justice Minor</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for Minor </span><span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">(minimum)</span><span class="generated-style"> 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CRIM 101 Survey of Criminal Justice 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select two courses from:</span><span class="generated-style"> 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CRIM 203 Police &amp; Society (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CRIM 211 The Criminal Court System (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CRIM 221 Survey of Corrections (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Select three upper level (300/400) CRCJ courses </span><span class="requirement-ital">(excluding CRIM 300 Applied Statistics)</span><span class="generated-style"> 9</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">An overall C average in courses applied to the minor is required and all courses must be taken for a letter grade (not Pass/No Pass). In addition, all 9 credit hours of upper division CRCJ course work must be taken in residence at the University of Nebraska.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Other College Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Total Hours</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each candidate must present a total of at least 120 semester hours of college credit to meet graduation requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Quality of Work</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each candidate for the degree must attain a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.0. A minimum grade of at least C- must be earned in all required courses within the major, unless a higher grade is designated by the department/school. All grades reported by the faculty to the registrar become a part of the student’s permanent record and are included in the computation of the grade point average, even though some of these grades may be for work done in excess of the 120 hours required for graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Transfer of Courses</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The transfer of D grades in non-major courses are accepted only from within the University of Nebraska system. Students from other institutions must present a grade of C- or above for all course work.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Residence</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Thirty of the last 36 hours required for the degree must be registered for and carried within the University of Nebraska system.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Acceptability of credits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The student should refer all questions concerning the acceptability of credits earned in programs such as Cooperative Education and Credit by Examination to the department in which enrolled. Credit earned in courses below the 100 level may not be applied toward the degree offered by the College of Public Affairs and Community Service.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Achievement-Centered Education (ACE)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All criminology and criminal justice students who are following the 2011-2012 Undergraduate Bulletin must fulfill the Achievement-Centered Education (ACE) requirements. The 30-hour ACE requirement will include a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement-Centered Education (ACE student learning outcome areas which can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of courses they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Courses required for the BSCCJ degree will also fulfill ACE requirements. Students should carefully review course work with ACE options to make the best use of courses to fulfill both degree requirements as well as their ACE requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisite Courses</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Completion of a course within the major with a grade below a C- will not be considered as having fulfilled prerequisite requirements for additional courses taken in the major field of study. A higher grade may be designated by the department/school.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Choice of Catalog Policy</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student registering in the College of Public Affairs and Community Service for the first time may, except for limitations described below, complete work for the degree according to the requirements of 1) the catalog in effect the year the student enters CPACS or 2) the catalog current at the time the student applies for the degree.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students entering the College for the first time in the summer will be subject to the catalog for the academic year immediately following.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students formerly in a CPACS program who drop out of the College for one year must complete requirements of the catalog current at the time of readmission.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Failure to complete the requirements for the degree within seven years after the date the student first enters the College will subject the student to graduation under the requirements of a later catalog to be approved by the Dean.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College reserves the right to institute and make effective, after due notice, during the course of a student’s work toward a degree, any new ruling which may be necessary for the general good of the College and to substitute courses currently offered for those no longer offered.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Appeals Procedure</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who wish to appeal a grade which they feel was capriciously or prejudicially given shall first discuss the matter with the instructor within 30 days of the final course grade being posted. If the matter is not resolved, the student must meet with the department/school chairperson. If a satisfactory agreement cannot be reached, the student must appeal, in writing, to the department/school curriculum committee. If a satisfactory agreement cannot be reached, the student may submit a written appeal to the Office of the Dean within 20 working days of the exhaustion of the departmental procedures.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Committee on Academic Standards and Curriculum for the College of Public Affairs and Community Service is the official body for handling the appeal.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In the event that the instructor is unavailable for handling a grade complaint, the student will meet with the school director and the dean to determine the most appropriate course of action agreeable to all parties.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Copies of the CPACS Procedures for Student Grades and Suspension Appeals are available from the chair of the Committee on Academic Standards and Curriculum for the College and the Office of the Dean.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Degree Audit and Application for Degree</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">During the second semester of their junior year, or after completing approximately 89 hours, students should apply for an audit of their academic records to be sure that all requirements will be met before the anticipated date of graduation. Criminology and criminal justice majors may request the audit at the CPACS Office, 310 Nebraska Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Criminology and criminal justice majors must also file an application for graduation at Graduation Services either just prior to or early in the semester they intend to graduate. Failure to meet the published deadline may delay graduation until the next semester.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
