<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Culinary Science</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="culinary-science">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Culinary Science</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Education &amp; Human Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEPARTMENT:</span><span class="generated-style"> Nutrition &amp; Health Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span><span class="generated-style"> Culinary Science </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span><span class="generated-style"> 2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Judy Hofeldt </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Culinary Science (Culinology®) option is the emerging discipline of the culinary arts, nutrition and the science of food. Culinology® is becoming a recognized and valued discipline that will significantly impact food research and development in the global market. Culinologists are skilled chefs who are creating a new generation of exciting, high-quality food products. The food industry needs, and rewards, people who understand and can apply the principles of this specialty.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Degree at a Glance</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Requirements 31</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 1. 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 2. 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 3. STAT 218 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 4. CHEM 109 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span><span class="generated-style"> 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 5. 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 6. ECON 211 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 7. 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 8. ECON 212 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 9. NUTR 253 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Requirement)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 10. FDST 460 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Requirement)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Culinary Arts Concentration 22</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">(Select any culinary arts electives from an accredited Institution)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional Requirements 32</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">HRTM 173 and NUTR 245 1 hr ea 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 244, NUTR 250, NUTR 344, (NUTR 372 or BIOS 312) and NUTR 449 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 441 &amp;/or NUTR 445 &amp;/or FDST 448 (3 hrs ea – </span><span class="requirement-ital">select two</span><span class="generated-style">) 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">FDST 205, FDST 403 and FDST 430 (3 hrs ea) 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Supporting Courses 17-20</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">MATH 101 or higher 3-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 341 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 321 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 110 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 251 (3 hrs) &amp; CHEM 253 (1 hr) 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Processing Electives 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select any two courses from the following: </span><span class="generated-style">(ASCI 210, ASCI 213, ASCI 310, ASCI 410) or (FDST 363, FDST 405, FDST 412, FDST 420, FDST 429, FDST 455) or NUTR 343</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Electives 9-12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Hours 120</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">ACE Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Area of Concentration </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">Culinary Arts electives from an accredited Culinary Arts Institution</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Professional Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Nutrition and Health Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-ital">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for NUTR courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HRTM 173 Field Experience in Culinology®</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 244 Scientific Principles of Food Preparation</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 245 Scientific Principles of Food Preparation Lab</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 250 Human Nutrition &amp; Metabolism</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 253 Cultural Aspects of Food &amp; Nutrition</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 344 Food &amp; Nutrition for Healthy Living</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 372 Food Safety &amp; Sanitation or BIOS 312 Microbiology</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 441 Functional Properties of Food </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">&amp;/or</span><span class="generated-style"> FDST 448 Food Chemistry </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">&amp;/or</span><span class="generated-style"> NUTR 445 Experimental Foods</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 449 Culinology® Research Experience</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Food Science and Technology</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">FDST 205 Food Composition &amp; Analysis</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">FDST 403 Food Quality Assurance</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">FDST 430 Sensory Evaluation</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">FDST 460 Food Product Development Concepts</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Supporting Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 321 Elements of Biochemistry</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Supporting Courses</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 211 &amp; ECON 212 Principles of Macroeconomics &amp; Microeconomics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 101 College Algebra</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="list-ital">If a student does not place into MATH 101, they must complete the appropriate course(s) plus complete MATH 101. If a student places above MATH 101, the student will take either MATH 101 or the MATH course they placed into.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 341 Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">STAT 218 Intro to Statistics</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Processing Electives</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select two courses from: </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 210 Animal Products</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 213 Meat Specifications &amp; Procurement</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 310 Fresh Meats</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 410 Processed Meats</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FDST 363 Heat &amp; Mass Transfer</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FDST 405 Food Microbiology</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FDST 412 Cereal Technology</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FDST 420 Fruit &amp; Vegetable Technology</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FDST 429 Dairy Products Technology</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FDST 455 Microbiology of Fermented Foods</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 343 Meat Culinology® III: Foodservice Applications </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Grade of C or better required in NUTR 343)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Electives</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Meat Culinology® Certificate Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Meat Culinology® Certificate program at UNL concentrates on meat because it is the center of most meals and is the major portion of the food budget in the food service industry. Proper handling and preparation is paramount to the success of a meal and a food establishment. The faculty at UNL who developed this program know that food industry professionals are busy. With little time to take courses on campus, the online Meat Culinology® Certificate program allows professionals the opportunity to advance their education and career by learning more about the science and art of meat. The six-course sequence will teach you everything from harvest to consumption of livestock and poultry. The Meat Culinology® Certificate program consists of six courses. Students must successfully complete all six courses in order to earn certification. Successful completion is considered an earned grade of ‘C’ or higher.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Meat Culinology® Certificate Program</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 210 Animal Products</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 213/NUTR 213 Meat Specification &amp; Procurement</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 310 Fresh Meats</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 343/ASCI 343 Meat Culinology® III: Foodservice Applications</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 410 Processed Meats</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 411 HACCP &amp; Food Safety Systems for the Food Industry</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
