<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Dietetics</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="dietetics">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Dietetics</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Education &amp; Human Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEPARTMENT:</span><span class="generated-style"> Nutrition &amp; Health Sciences </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span><span class="generated-style"> Dietetics (Didactic Program in Dietetics) </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span><span class="generated-style"> 2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Judy Hofeldt </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Dietetics (Didactic Program in Dietetics) option is designed for students who wish to become registered dietitians and practitioners in clinical, community, food industry, and foodservice areas of nutrition and may be employed by hospitals, community agencies, and various government or private organizations. The University of Nebraska–Lincoln Didactic Program in Dietetics is currently granted accreditation status by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, 120 South Riverside Plaza, Suite 2000, Chicago, IL 60606-6995. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The process to become a registered dietitian involves three steps: completion of a bachelors degree with attainment of the Verification Statement of Completion of the Didactic Program in Dietetics; admission into and the completion of an accredited dietetic internship program; and successfully passing the registration exam to earn the Registered Dietitian (RD) credential.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Meeting requirements for the bachelors degree Dietetics option does not automatically result in the student being awarded a Verification Statement of Completion of the Didactic Program in Dietetics. Requirements for attainment of the Verification Statement are listed on the dietetics program website. The Verification Statement of Completion of the Didactic Program in Dietetics is required for admission into an accredited dietetic internship program.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Acceptance into an accredited dietetic internship program is competitive. Currently, there is a significant shortage of available internship positions for the number of students applying for acceptance into an internship program. Acceptance into an internship program cannot be guaranteed.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All required accreditation information and requirements for attainment of the Verification Statement can be found at http://cehs.unl.edu/nhs/undergrad/dietetics.shtml.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Degree at a Glance </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Requirements 33</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 1. 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 2. 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 3. EDPS 459 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> STAT 218 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 4. CHEM 109 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span><span class="generated-style"> 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 5. 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 6. PSYC 181 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span><span class="generated-style"> 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 7. 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 8. 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 9. NUTR 253 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Requirement)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 10. NUTR 452 &amp; NUTR 452L </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Requirement)</span><span class="generated-style"> 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional Requirements </span><span class="requirement-ital">(A grade of C or above is required)</span><span class="generated-style"> 40</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 100, NUTR 244, NUTR 250, NUTR 251, NUTR 344, NUTR 356, NUTR 370, NUTR 402, NUTR 450, NUTR 453, NUTR 455, NUTR 473 (3 hrs ea) 36 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 150, NUTR 245, NUTR 371, NUTR 490 (1 hr ea) 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Supporting Courses 25-29</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">MATH 101 or higher 2-5 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 321 &amp; BIOC 321L 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 102 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 103 &amp; BIOS 103L 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 111 (4 hrs) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 312 (3 hrs) &amp; BIOS 314 (1 hr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> NUTR 372 (3 hrs) 3-4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 110 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Electives 18-22</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Hours 120</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">ACE Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">* These (*) courses, required in your major, will also meet ACE Requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Professional Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-ital">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for NUTR courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 100 Nutrition, Exercise &amp; Health</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 150 Foundations in Nutrition &amp; Health Promotion</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 244 &amp; NUTR 245 Scientific Principles of Food Preparation &amp; Lab</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 250 Human Nutrition &amp; Metabolism</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 251 Nutrition Through the Life Cycle</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">*NUTR 253 Cultural Aspects of Food &amp; Nutrition </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 344 Food &amp; Nutrition for Healthy Living</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 356 Nutrition Education in the Community</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 370 Food Production Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 371 Applied Food Production Lab</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 402 Facts &amp; Fiction in Fitness &amp; Food</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 450 Medical Nutrition Therapy I</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">*NUTR 452 Medical Nutrition Therapy II</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">*NUTR 452L Medical Nutrition Therapy II Lab</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 453 Nutrition &amp; Fitness Communication Strategies</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 455 Advanced Nutrition</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 473 Organization &amp; Administration of Foodservice</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 490 Professional Preparation for Careers in Dietetics</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Supporting Courses</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">*EDPS 459 Statistical Methods </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> *STAT 218 Intro to Statistics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">*PSYC 181 Intro to Psychology</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 101 College Algebra or higher, trigonometry or calculus </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="list-ital">*</span><span class="generated-style">BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> *BIOS 102 Cell Structure &amp; Function </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> *BIOS 103 &amp; BIOS 103L Organismic Biology </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 111 The Biology of Microoganisms </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 312 &amp; BIOS 314 Microbiology &amp; Lab </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> NUTR 372 Food Safety &amp; Sanitation (3-4 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L Human Physiology &amp; Lab</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 321 &amp; BIOC 321L Elements of Biochemistry &amp; Lab</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Grades Earned at UNL, UNO, UNK</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Grades of D-, D, D+, C- satisfy requirements of the programs in human sciences unless specified otherwise under the Programs and Departments section of the bulletin. Students who receive a grade of D-, D, D+, or C-, however, are encouraged to retake the course, particularly if it is in the major area.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Grades Earned Outside UN System</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Up to 9 hours of grades below C (C-, D+, D, D-) from other academic institutions can only be applied to general education requirements and elective classes. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Policy for Pass/No Pass Courses</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Pass/No Pass (P/N) option is designed for students who want to study elective areas or topics when they may have minimum preparation. If used for this purpose, the option can enrich the student’s academic experience without lowering the student’s grade point average. Free electives may be taken P/N. Students can earn no more than 12 hours of pass credit excluding courses offered on Pass/No Pass only basis. Not all classes can be taken under the Pass/No Pass option. All courses, specified by course and number, must be taken for a grade. Should a student have earned a P in one of the courses prior to starting the option, the P will be reviewed by the appropriate department.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
