<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Economics (CBA)</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="economics-cba-">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Economics (CBA)</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Economics (CBA)</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 hours for degree (21 hours for the major) </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.5 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Roger Butters</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Scott M. Fuess, Jr., 340 CBA</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Allgood, Anderson, Cushing, Edwards, Fuess, Hayden, MacPhee, May, Rosenbaum, Schmidt, van den Berg, Walstad</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Kim, McGarvey, Thompson</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Butters, Giertz</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Asarta</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Miller</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Economic analysis is useful in many decisions made by individuals, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and governments. In addition to opportunities in teaching, economists are employed in many branches of government and on the staffs of corporations in manufacturing, insurance, banking, brokerage, and financial services. Economists often serve as consultants, either individually or in consulting firms. Today’s economists deal with problems ranging from monetary and fiscal policy, monopoly and competition, environmental improvement, labor relations, regional development, urban reconstruction, economic development and international business and finance. Economics is also a popular major for students planning to enter professional and graduate programs, particularly in law, foreign service, labor relations, or business administration.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The Department of Economics offers the opportunity for intensive study in twelve specialized economic areas: </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">General Economics and Theory. </span><span class="generated-style">Develops fundamental reasoning skills and analytical tools necessary to understand and evaluate economic issues such as specialization, trade, efficiency, costs, markets, prices, resource allocation, money, labor, and government and think critically about economic theory and social provisioning.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Comparative International and Regional Development. </span><span class="generated-style">Examines how human capital, fiscal policy, natural features, and industry clusters influence the comparative advantage, growth, and standard of living in urban and regional economies between and within countries. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Econometrics.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Economic Education.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Economic History.</span><span class="generated-style"> Examines the transformation in economic life that accompanied the rise of market capitalism in the United States and focus on the impact of this transformation on the environment, society, and individuals. Courses in this area are integrative in nature and allow students the opportunity to examine the complex nature of economic development throughout American history.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Industrial Organization and Regulation.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Institutional Economics.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">International Trade and Finance. </span><span class="generated-style">Examines the causes and effects of imports, exports, foreign investment, and migration and their implications for exchange rates, the balance of payments, and economic welfare. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Labor Economics.</span><span class="generated-style"> Focuses on how labor markets function and thus, how wages and employment are determined. The decisions of labor market participants are studied, as are employment practices and public policies related to employment issues. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Monetary Economics.</span><span class="generated-style"> Studies the role of money and banking system, and of Federal Reserve’s monetary policy in the determination of output, employment, interest rates, prices and business cycles in the domestic and open-economy context. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Public Finance. </span><span class="generated-style">Survey of taxation and public expenditures in theory and practice. Understanding the logic of collective action, the theory of public goods, social welfare, redistribution and intergovernmental fiscal relations.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Quantitative Economics.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">For some careers, study in related areas is advisable. If you’re interested in:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Human Resource Management – take additional courses in labor economics and economic history</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Finance – courses in money and banking, intermediate microeconomics, and macroeconomics are helpful</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Marketing – econometrics courses add to your resume</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Accounting – econometrics and public finance courses covering taxes are useful</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">In planning a program of studies, students should consult a faculty adviser or talk to any member of the economics faculty who would be glad to make suggestions about complementary courses.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Many economics courses also satisfy ACE requirements (see Other).</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Major/Department Admission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University Admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 21 hours of course work for the major.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All students, regardless of their major or interests in the College will take MATH 104 or equivalent, ECON 211, ECON 212, and ECON 215 as part of the Business Core Foundation requirements.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">NONE of these courses may be used to count toward the major, and cannot be taken Pass/No Pass.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M) </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">In addition to the 9 general credit-hours of the Business Core Foundation Course requirements (ECON 211, ECON 212 and ECON 215), an economics major must complete 21 credit hours of economics.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">All courses for the major, with the exception of ECON 399, must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass).</span><span class="generated-style"> If ECON 399 is taken as Pass/No Pass, it may only be used as an elective.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Completion of ECON 311 and ECON 312 is recommended before enrolling in additional 300/400-level economics course work. </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The requirements for the major include:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 311 Intermediate Macroeconomics (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 312 Intermediate Microeconomics (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Economics 300- or 400-level course (6 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Economics 400-level courses (9 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Total (21 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="basic-text-ital">Faculty approval required on proposed program of course work.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Recommended Order of Studies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must first complete all Core courses including MATH 104, ECON 211, ECON 212 and ECON 215. We strongly recommend students complete the intermediate theory sequence, ECON 311 and ECON 312, prior to completing elective 300- and 400-level classes.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style"> While not required, students majoring in economics may choose to pursue areas of interest in the following disciplines to fulfill requirements for the major. Course options appear under each area. </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">General Economics and Theory</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 389 Current Economic Issues</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 413 Social Insurance</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 433 History of Economic Thought</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 445 Gender, Economics, &amp; Social Provisioning</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Comparative International and Regional Development</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 322 Intro to Development Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 323 The Economic Development of Latin America</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 340 Intro to Urban-Regional Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 388 Comparative Economic Systems</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 423 Economics of the Less Developed Countries</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 440 Regional Development</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 442 Regional Analysis</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 466 Pro-seminar in International Relations I</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 467 Pro-seminar in International Relations II</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 487 Economies in Transition</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Econometrics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 417 Introductory Econometrics</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Economic Education</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="list-ital">(Also see courses in Quantitative Economics)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 450 Economics for Teachers </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 451 Economics Issues for Teachers</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Economic History</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 375 Women &amp; Work in United States History</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 457 19th Century United States Economic History</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 458 20th Century United States Economic History</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Industrial Organization and Regulation</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 426 Government Intervention in Markets</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 435 Market Competition</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="list-ital">Also see the following economics courses:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 457/857 19th Century U.S. Economic History</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 458/858 20th Century U.S. Economic History</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 472/872 Efficiency in Government</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 487/887 Economies in Transition</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 900 Seminar in Economic Theory &amp; Policy</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Institutional Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 475 Theory &amp; Analysis of Institutional Economics</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">International Trade and Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 321 Intro to International Economics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> ECON 321 is also an ACE 9 course option and can be taken to fulfill the NBR 6–ACE 9 requirement as well as a course for the major (AND it is also an IBCR).</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 421 International Trade</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 422 International Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="list-ital">For additional courses, see Comparative International &amp; Regional Development</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Labor Economics </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 381 Intro to Labor Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 481 Economics of the Labor Market</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 482 Labor in the National Economy</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 485 Government &amp; Labor</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Monetary Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 303 An Intro to Money &amp; Banking</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 365 Financial Institutions &amp; Markets</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 403 Money &amp; the Financial System</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 404 Current Issues in Monetary Economics</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Public Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 371 Elements of Public Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 471 Public Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 472 Efficiency in Government</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Quantitative Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 409 Applied Public Policy Analysis</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 416 Statistics for Decision Making</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 419 Topics in Applied Research</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="list-ital">Also see Econometrics area for additional courses in quantitative economics.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Research and Thesis</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Seminar and research courses in specific fields are listed in their respective divisions.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 189H University Honors Seminar</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 198 Freshman Seminar</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 399 Independent Study</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 399H Honors: Independent Study</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 499H Honors Thesis</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">This department participates in the program for Global Studies. For a full description of the program, see “Global Studies.”</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Graduate Work</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy are offered. For details of these programs see the Graduate Studies Bulletin. Refer to the Graduate Studies Bulletin for 800/900 level courses.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">C- and D Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College grade rules.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All courses for the major, with the exception of ECON 399, must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass). If ECON 399 is taken as Pass/No Pass, it may only be used as an elective.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College GPA requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Level Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style"> Completion of ECON 311 and ECON 312 is recommended before taking other 300/400-level economics courses.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Economics Minor Requirements</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The economics minor offered through CBA is available to </span><span class="basic-text-bold">College of Business Administration students only</span><span class="generated-style">. The college expects that 50% of the course work for the minor will be completed at UNL.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Economics course work used for this minor </span><span class="basic-text-bold">cannot</span><span class="generated-style"> be double counted toward business core foundation (BCF), intermediate (BCI), or advanced-major (BCA-M; BCA-A) degree requirements, for another major, nor any other business minor requirements (with the exception of business electives). </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Business students choosing to minor in economics must follow the CBA economics minor requirements.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">College of Arts and Sciences (ASC) students interested in completing an economics minor must refer to the ASC section for the ASC economics major/minor.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">To fulfill the requirements for an economics minor, CBA students must complete:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style"> Nine (9) graded hours of 300/400-level economics course work </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All course work must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass)</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Economics Minor Requirements for Arts and Science economics major:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">If majoring in economics through the College of Arts and Sciences, please see economics minor for ASC for specific requirements.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All students enrolling in CBA courses are required to meet the prerequisites listed for each course, including any specific grade or GPA requirement, to include all requirements for enrollment in most 300- or 400-level economics courses.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">ECON 211 and ECON 212 Macro- and Microeconomics are ACE 6 and ACE 8 approved course work and have been double counted to fulfill both the ACE requirement of the University (for ACE 6 and 8) and the College’s Business Core Foundation (BCF) requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">ECON 215 Statistics is an approved ACE 3 course and may be used to fulfill the ACE 3 requirement of the University.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">ECON 321 Introduction to International Economics is an approved ACE 9 course and while most students will complete ACE 9 during the freshman and sophomore year with other course work, transfer and upper-class students meeting the prerequisite, may wish to take this class, counting it for both an NBR 6–ACE 9 and as a course for the Business Core Advanced–Major (MCA–M) in economics. It also may be used to fulfill the International Business Course Requirement (IBCR), allowing it to be counted three ways.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Regardless of its double or triple counting, there are only 3 hours of credit awarded and students must still meet the 120 hour requirement for graduation.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
