<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Economics (ASC)</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="economics-asc-">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Economics (ASC)</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Economics</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Roger Butters</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Scott M. Fuess, Jr.,</span><span class="generated-style"> 340 College of Business Administration Building</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Allgood, Anderson, Cushing, Edwards, Fuess, Hayden, MacPhee, May, Rosenbaum, Schmidt, van den Berg, Walstad</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Kim, McGarvey, Thompson</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Butters, Giertz</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Asarta</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Economic analysis is useful in many decisions made by individuals, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and governments. In addition to opportunities in teaching, economists are employed in many branches of government and on the staffs of corporations in manufacturing, insurance, banking, brokerage and other financial services. Economists often serve as consultants, either individually or in consulting firms. Today’s economists deal with problems ranging from monetary and fiscal policy, monopoly and competition, environmental improvement, labor relations, regional development, urban reconstruction, economic development and international business and finance. Economics is also a popular major for students planning to enter professional and graduate programs, particularly in law, foreign service, labor relations, or business administration.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The department of economics offers the opportunity for intensive study in twelve specialized economic areas: </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">General Economics and Theory.</span><span class="generated-style"> Develops fundamental reasoning skills and analytical tools necessary to understand and evaluate economic issues such as specialization, trade, efficiency, costs, markets, prices, resource allocation, money, labor, and government and think critically about economic theory and social provisioning.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Comparative International and Regional Development. Examines how human capital, fiscal policy, natural features, and industry clusters influence the comparative advantage, growth, and standard of living in urban and regional economies between and within countries. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Econometrics.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Economic Education.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Economic History.</span><span class="generated-style"> Examines the transformation in economic life that accompanied the rise of market capitalism in the United States and focus on the impact of this transformation on the environment, society, and individuals. Courses in this area are integrative in nature and allow students the opportunity to examine the complex nature of economic development throughout American history.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Industrial Organization and Regulation.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Institutional Economics.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">International Trade and Finance.</span><span class="generated-style"> Examines the causes and effects of imports, exports, foreign investment, and migration and their implications for exchange rates, the balance of payments, and economic welfare. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Labor Economics.</span><span class="generated-style"> Focuses on how labor markets function and thus, how wages and employment are determined. The decisions of labor market participants are studied, as are employment practices and public policies related to employment issues. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Monetary Economics.</span><span class="generated-style"> Studies the role of money and banking system, and of Federal Reserve’s monetary policy in the determination of output, employment, interest rates, prices and business cycles in the domestic and open-economy context. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Public Finance.</span><span class="generated-style"> Survey of taxation and public expenditures in theory and practice. Understanding the logic of collective action, the theory of public goods, social welfare, redistribution and intergovernmental fiscal relations.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Quantitative Economics.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For some careers, study in related areas is advisable. If you’re interested in:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Human Resource Management – take additional courses in labor economics and economic history</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Finance – courses in money and banking, intermediate microeconomics, and macroeconomics are helpful</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Marketing – econometrics courses add to your resume</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Accounting – econometrics and public finance courses covering taxes are useful</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">In planning a program of studies, students should consult a faculty adviser or talk to any member of the economics faculty who would be glad to make suggestions about complementary courses.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Many economics courses also satisfy ACE requirements, (see Other.)</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">An economics major must complete 30 credit hours of economics. These 30 hours must include:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 215 Statistics* 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 311 Intermediate Macroeconomics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 312 Intermediate Microeconomics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Economics 300- or 400-level courses 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Economics 400-level courses 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 30</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">*</span><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE</span><span class="generated-style"> for economics majors: STAT 218 may be substituted for ECON 215 if STAT 218 was completed before declaring economics as a major; otherwise student must take ECON 215.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Track/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">While not required, students majoring in economics may choose to pursue areas of interest in the following disciplines to fulfill requirements for the major. Course options appear under each area.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">General Economics and Theory</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 389 Current Economic Issues</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 413 Social Insurance</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 433 History of Economic Thought</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 445 Gender, Economics, &amp; Social Provisioning</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Comparative International and Regional Development</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 322 Intro to Development Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 323 The Economic Development of Latin America</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 340 Intro to Urban-Regional Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 388 Comparative Economic Systems</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 423 Economics of the Less Developed Countries</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 440 Regional Development</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 442 Regional Analysis</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 466 Pro-seminar in International Relations I</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 467 Pro-seminar in International Relations II</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 487 Economies in Transition</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Econometrics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 417 Introductory Econometrics</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Economic Education</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">(Also see courses in Quantitative Economics)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 450 Economics for Teachers </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 451 Economics Issues for Teachers</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Economic History</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 375 Women &amp; Work in United States History</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 457 19th Century United States Economic History</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 458 20th Century United States Economic History</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Industrial Organization and Regulation</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 426 Government Intervention in Markets</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 435 Market Competition</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Also see the following economics courses:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 457/857 19th Century U.S. Economic History</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 458/858 20th Century U.S. Economic History</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 472/872 Efficiency in Government</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 487/887 Economies in Transition</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 900 Seminar in Economic Theory &amp; Policy</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Institutional Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 475 Theory &amp; Analysis of Institutional Economics</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">International Trade and Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 321 Intro to International Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> ECON 321 is also an ACE 9 course option and can be taken to fulfill the NBR 6–ACE 9 requirement as well as a course for the major (AND it is also an IBCR).</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 421 International Trade</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 422 International Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">For additional courses, see Comparative International &amp; Regional Development</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Labor Economics </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 381 Intro to Labor Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 481 Economics of the Labor Market</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 482 Labor in the National Economy</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 485 Government &amp; Labor</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Monetary Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 303 An Intro to Money &amp; Banking</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 365 Financial Institutions &amp; Markets</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 403 Money &amp; the Financial System</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 404 Current Issues in Monetary Economics</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Public Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 371 Elements of Public Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 471 Public Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 472 Efficiency in Government</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Quantitative Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 409 Applied Public Policy Analysis</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 416 Statistics for Decision Making</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 419 Topics in Applied Research</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Also see Econometrics area for additional courses in quantitative economics.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Research and Thesis</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Seminar and research courses in specific fields are listed in their respective divisions.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 189H University Honors Seminar</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 198 Freshman Seminar</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 399 Independent Study</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 399H Honors: Independent Study</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 499H Honors Thesis</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This department participates in the program for International Studies. For a full description of the program, see “International Studies.”</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span><span class="generated-style"> The advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy are offered. For details of these programs see the Graduate Studies Bulletin. Refer to the Graduate Studies Bulletin for 800/900-level courses.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are required to complete ECON 211, ECON 212, and ECON 215 before completing additional required economics course work. The completion of BSAD 150 and MATH 104 are required prior to enrollment in ECON 215. We strongly recommend students complete the intermediate theory sequence, ECON 311 and ECON 312, prior to completing elective 300 and 400 level classes.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All courses for the major, with the exception of ECON 399, must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass). If ECON 399 is taken as Pass/No Pass, it may only be used as an elective.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Course Level Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Completion of ECON 311 and ECON 312 is recommended before taking other 300/400-level economics courses.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A:</span><span class="generated-style"> 18 hours</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan B:</span><span class="generated-style"> 12 hours</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All students are required to meet the prerequisites listed for each course, including any specific grade or GPA requirement, to include all requirements for enrollment in 300- or 400-level economics courses.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">ECON 211 and ECON 212 Macro- and Microeconomics are ACE 6 and ACE 8 approved course work.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">ECON 215 Statistics is an approved ACE 3 course and may be used to fulfill the ACE 3 requirement of the University. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">ECON 321 Introduction to International Economics is an approved ACE 9 course and while most students will complete ACE 9 during the freshman and sophomore year with other course work, transfer and upper-class students meeting the prerequisite, may wish to take this class.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
