<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Energy Science Minor 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="energy-science-minor-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Energy Science Minor</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR: </span>Energy Science (Minor only)</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 18</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator:</span> Assistant Professor Adam Liska, 246 Chase Hall</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Conley, Hudgins, Schinstock, Yoder</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website:</span> http://energysciences.unl.edu</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The energy science minor is designed to offer an educational component to University of Nebraska students that will prepare them with the knowledge, expertise, and background to successfully compete for positions with companies that are producing or developing renewable energy sources. The minor is for students who desire a broad understanding of energy related issues and an in-depth knowledge of energy in one or more of four elective thematic areas as well as for those seeking employment in agriculture, business/industry, communication, transportation, and government plus domestic use.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Minor Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A minor in energy science (ENSC) will include a minimum of 18 credit hours of energy-related courses including three core courses (ENSC 110 Energy in Perspective, ENSC 220 Introduction to Energy Systems, and ENSC 230 Energy and the Environment: Economics and Policy). The remaining energy-related courses must come from one or more of the four elective thematic tracks (Energy and Natural Resources; Plant and Animal Bioenergy; Energy Engineering; and Energy Economics, Policy, and Human Dimensions) or be approved by the student’s academic adviser and the minor coordinator. Additionally, a 1-credit-hour Energy Seminar (ENSC 300) will be required, and an optional 1-credit-hour Nebraska Energy Study Tour (ENSC 311) and an optional 1-credit-hour Independent Energy Study (ENSC 496) will be offered. Completing each of the 1-credit-hour courses will allow a student to use those 3 credit hours in place of a course from one of the four thematic areas. At least 6 credit hours must be at the 300 or 400 level and up to 3 hours of energy-related independent study course work may be included.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Courses of Instruction (ENSC)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Courses suitable for automatic inclusion in one of the four elective thematic areas have been identified and the list can be obtained from the minor coordinator or any of the minor advisers listed above. Other courses may be included with prior approval of the minor coordinator.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A student in consultation with the academic adviser and a minor adviser (chosen from those above) prepares a list of courses on the CASNR Application for Minor form, obtains the appropriate signatures and submits the minor form to the minor coordinator prior to deadline for submitting the application for graduation. Upon approval, the minor program will be forwarded to the University Registrar, with a copy supplied to the student’s major college. The minor will be recorded on the student’s transcript upon graduation.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
