<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>English.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="english">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>English</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> English</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Kelly Payne</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Susan Belasco,</span> 204A Andrews Hall</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Vice Chair:</span> Laura White</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Agee, Bauer, Behrendt, Belasco, Brooke, Buhler, Dawes, Dixon, Foster, Garelick, Goodburn, Honey, Kaye, Kooser, Pratt, Price, Reynolds, Slater, White</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors: </span>Abel, Castro, Condon, Dreher, Gannon, Homestead, Lynch, Minter, Montes, Ramsay, Stenberg</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Capuano, Deb, Gailey, Jockers, Rutledge, Schaffert, Schleck, Stage, Vegso, Waite</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Research Associate Professor:</span> Ronning</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor of Practice:</span> Griffin</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> Vespa</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Department of English seeks to provide for the diverse needs of its students by offering them the opportunity to read widely, to understand and enjoy what they read, and to express themselves both orally and in writing with ease, force and clarity. Through the practice of writing and the study of language, literature and film, the department strives to stimulate humanistic learning and the capacity to respond rationally and imaginatively to literature and the life it reflects.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The undergraduate major in English is designed for three groups: 1) those who seek a general education; 2) those who plan to teach in the elementary and secondary schools; and 3) those who plan to pursue graduate study in the field. The major is also frequently chosen as preparation for professional study in law, medicine, and business, and for careers in other fields such as publishing, editing, library science, and digital humanities. Many students find the English major is a fine complement to a major in a professional field.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A student declaring an English major will meet with the chief adviser to establish a tentative rationale and plan for the major. Thereafter the student must meet with the chief adviser at least once a year to update the major plan, review progress toward the degree, plan a concentration, and consult about course selection, scholarships, and careers or post-graduate education. The department Advising Center (201 Andrews Hall) will offer written information about these matters and others of interest to majors.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Special Programs.</span> The Department of English houses the major in Film Studies and participates in the majors in Ethnic Studies and in Women’s and Gender Studies; in the minors in African American Studies, U.S. Latina/Latino Studies, Ethnic Studies, Native American Studies, Judaic Studies, Medieval and Renaissance Studies, and Religious Studies.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">International Students.</span> International students who are not native speakers of English must take an English placement examination. For details, see the coordinator of the English as a Second Language program in the Department of English.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>The Curriculum</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Course Offerings.</span> English courses are regularly offered in drama, poetry, and fiction; the English language; periods and authors in British and American literature; women’s and minority literatures; creative and expository writing; literary and rhetorical theory and criticism; and film. For the precise courses offered or to be offered in any particular semester, see the <span class="basic-text-ital">Schedule of Classes</span> for that semester. A course description booklet is also available in the departmental office and online before each early registration period.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Credit Hours.</span> Undergraduate English courses will usually yield 3 semester hours of credit. Graduate-level seminars are usually offered for variable credit (normally 3 or 4 credit hours). The letter suffix “H” indicates an honors course; “X” indicates an online course.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Independent Study.</span> This is a provision for students wishing to study areas of literature and language not covered or insufficiently covered in regularly scheduled classes. Students must secure permission from a professorial staff member willing to direct their study and must file an Independent Directed Reading Contract (available in the Advising Center, 201 Andrews Hall) with the Undergraduate Adviser. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> Neither ENGL 495 (Internship) nor ENGL 497 (Independent Study) count towards fulfilling 400-level requirements for majors and minors. A maximum of 6 credit hours of ENGL 399 (Independent Study) and/or ENGL 497 may count towards the 300-level requirement for the major.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Prerequisites.</span> The first course in English is ordinarily chosen from courses numbered 100-151. However, international students who are not native speakers of English normally take English courses such as ENGL 140, ENGL 141, ENGL 142, ENGL 186, ENGL 187, and ENGL 188.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Course Levels</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">100 Level.</span> Introductory courses are open only to freshman and sophomore students. Transfer students and others who have not met the communication requirement and have 65 or more credit hours must choose ENGL 254 or ENGL 354 to complete this requirement. (In unusual cases, exceptions to this rule may be granted by the Chief Adviser, English Department.) Writing is emphasized in courses numbered 100-199, and all such courses except ENGL 140, ENGL 141, ENGL 142, ENGL 180, ENGL 189H, ENGL 186, and ENGL 187, are designed to fulfill ACE Outcome 1. Newly admitted students who are not native speakers of English must take an English placement examination to determine their appropriate course requirement.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">200 Level.</span> Courses designed for the intermediate student who has completed or is concurrently taking one or two courses in English.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">300 Level.</span> Courses designed for the intermediate student who ordinarily will have had two courses at the 200 level. These students should normally take the remainder of their courses at the 300 level or 400 level. English majors and minors should advance to the 300 level as soon as possible.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">400 Level.</span> Courses designed for the advanced student or the student with a special interest. English majors must take at least 6 credit hours at the 400 level.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">800/900 Level.</span> Graduate courses. Graduate standing and at least 18 hours of undergraduate course work in English are prerequisite to courses at the 800- and 900-level. Advanced undergraduates may register in 800- and 900-level courses with the permission of the Dean of Graduate Studies, provided that these hours do not count towards their baccalaureate requirements.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> The advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy are offered. For details see the <span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span>.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Specific Major Requirements</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">36 hours distributed at the following levels:</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>200 level or above 12</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>300 level or above 18</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>400 level 6</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>The major also requires a minimum number of these 36 hours in different areas or courses:</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-bold">A.</span> ENGL 200 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-bold">B.</span> Linguistics, writing, and/or rhetoric 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGL 254, ENGL 322A, ENGL 322B, ENGL 354, ENGL 376, <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ENGL 480</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-bold">C</span>. Literary or rhetorical theory 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGL 270, ENGL 275, ENGL 373, ENGL 471, ENGL 475, ENGL 475A, <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ENGL 478 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-bold">D.</span> Historical Literature Core 9</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>British Literature 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGL 230, ENGL 230A*, ENGL 231, ENGL 305A, ENGL 330, ENGL 330E*, ENGL 331, ENGL 362, ENGL 363, ENGL 364, <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ENGL 365</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>Literature Before 1800 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGL 230, ENGL 230A*, ENGL 330E*, ENGL 341, ENGL 362, ENGL 363, <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ENGL 364</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>American Literature 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGL 260, ENGL 261, ENGL 332, ENGL 333, <span class="requirement-bold">or </span>ENGL 334</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-bold">E.</span> Literature in the Context of Culture, Ethnicity, and/or Gender 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGL 212, ENGL 215, ENGL 244, ENGL 244E, ENGL 245A, ENGL 245J, ENGL 245N, ENGL 315A, ENGL 315B, ENGL 344B, ENGL 344D, ENGL 345D, <span class="requirement-bold">or </span>ENGL 345N </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-bold">F.</span> Capstone Course 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGL 487</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-bold">G.</span> Concentration 12</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>(12 hours at the 300- or 400-level, only 6 of which can be in creative writing)</p>
			<p class="asterisk" xml:lang='en-us'>*Only one of these courses may count for the historical literature core.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>No course which includes fewer than three authors can be used to satisfy area requirements except one course in Chaucer or Shakespeare or Milton. One advanced-level literature course in another language may count for the major, with the chief adviser’s permission. A student may receive credit for a course bearing the same course number and letter more than once with the prior permission of the chief adviser, as long as the subtitles vary.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required from time to time to complete written exit surveys and to compile portfolios of selected written work in major courses. All such work will be assessed in ways that assure student anonymity.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Concentrations.</span> Students with particular career goals, or who desire to attend graduate school, should consider developing a concentration to support those aspirations. Students may design their own concentration in consultation with the chief adviser and appropriate faculty members. Such concentrations would typically group together four courses from sub-fields such as literary and cultural studies, creative writing, film studies, composition and rhetoric, Medieval and Renaissance studies, 19th century studies, environmental and place studies, ethnic studies, women’s and gender studies, editing and publishing, digital humanities, or other areas of the student’s choosing. In some cases, an interdisciplinary concentration may include a course from another department. Students select four courses at the 300 or 400 level. Students wishing to develop a concentration are encouraged to consult with the English Undergraduate Advising Office (201 Andrews) early in their program.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Minor Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>English majors are required to complete one Plan A minor or two Plan B minors or a second major.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A student may apply up to 6 hours of Pass/No Pass credit toward a major in English without securing permission; and a student may apply up to 3 hours of Pass/No Pass credit toward a minor in English, subject to the approval of the department granting the major. To secure the necessary approval, students may obtain request forms from the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>No more than 6 Pass/No Pass hours can count for the English major. No course can count for more than one requirement. </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Course Level Requirement</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>No more than 6 hours of Independent Directed Reading (including internships) will count for the major. Neither independent study taken at the 400 level nor an internship will count for the 400-level requirement for the major. Students taking 6 hours of ENGL 399H may count for the major no more than 3 additional hours of Independent Directed Reading. No more than 3 hours of internship (ENGL 495) will count for the English major.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A.</span> 18 hrs of English above the 100 level; 9 hrs must be above 299; of these 9 hrs, 3 hrs must be above 399.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan B.</span> 12 hrs of English beyond the 100 level; 6 hrs above 299.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>No more than 3 hours of Pass/No Pass may count for a minor in English.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
