<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Family &amp; Consumer Science Education (6-12) 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="family-consumer-science-education-6-12-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Family &amp; Consumer Sciences Education (6-12)</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEPARTMENT:</span> Child, Youth &amp; Family Studies</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span> Family &amp; Consumer Sciences Education (6-12) </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.5 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> AnnMarie Williams </p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students who complete this field endorsement are endorsed to teach family and consumer sciences in grades 6 through 12.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>General Information </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The College offers undergraduate programs leading to a bachelor of science in education and human sciences degree in more than 40 different teaching endorsements. Some students in other UNL colleges choose to seek certification, completing a degree in their home college while meeting all requirements for teacher certification in the College of Education and Human Sciences.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Early field placement in public and private schools is a nationally recognized hallmark of the teacher education program in the College of Education and Human Sciences. While internships are a valuable enhancement to many students’ education, in the College of Education and Human Sciences, practicum experiences and student teaching are a critical and essential part of the curriculum and these must be successfully completed in order to be certified in the teaching profession. A student’s inability to complete these field experiences, for any reason, may adversely impact the candidate’s ability to gain admission into the College or maintain enrollment in a teacher preparation program. Students unlikely or unable to complete the field experience may be counseled to seek other opportunities where success is more attainable. (See “Felony and Misdemeanor Conviction” and “Professional and Ethical Behavior” under the OTHER heading for additional information with respect to behaviors impacting field experience participation.)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Teacher education endorsements (or majors) are divided into field endorsements or single-subject endorsements. Field endorsements certify the candidate to teach a broader range of courses compared to single-subject endorsements, which certify the candidate to teach in one subject area only. Consequently, a teacher holding a field endorsement is typically more marketable than a teacher holding a single-subject endorsement.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Candidates may also elect to complete requirements for supplemental endorsements; these are additional endorsements that can be added to a field or single-subject endorsement but cannot be taken alone. Supplemental endorsements require additional credit hours beyond those needed for the first endorsement (field or single-subject). Teachers may increase their marketability by adding supplemental endorsements. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students may also choose to complete requirements for two endorsements simultaneously. Completing a second endorsement will require additional credit hours beyond those required for the first endorsement. Often the completion of two endorsements requires more than 120 credit hours of course work and may require additional semesters of course work. Students may contact the College Student Services Center, 105 Henzlik Hall, or their adviser, for assistance in deciding whether to complete: field or single-subject endorsements, one or more supplemental endorsements, or multiple endorsements.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Degree at a Glance</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Requirements 31</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 1. ENGL 150/ENGL 150H <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ENGL 151/ENGL 151H <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ENGL 101/ENGL 101H <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ENGL 254 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> JGEN 120 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> JGEN 200 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> JGEN 220 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 2. COMM 109/COMM 109H <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> COMM 209 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> COMM 210 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> COMM 286 <span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-professional Requirement)</span> 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 3. 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 4. CHEM 109 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Course)</span> 4 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 5. 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 6. CYAF 160 <span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-professional Requirement)</span> 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 7. 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 8. TEAC 331 <span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-professional Requirement)</span> 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 9. NUTR 253<span class="requirement-ital"> (Endorsement Requirement)</span> 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 10. CYAF 403 <span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Education Requirement)</span> 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Pre-Professional Requirements 29</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>LIBR 110 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 150, CYAF 222, *CYAF 280, *CYAF 380, &amp; CYAF 382 (3 hrs ea) 15 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 270 2 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 270L 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>EDPS *251 (3 hrs) &amp; EDPS 297 (1 hr) 4 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>TEAC 259 &amp; *TEAC 330 6 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Endorsement Requirements 31-32 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 333 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 244, NUTR 250, NUTR 372 (3 hrs ea) 9 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 245 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>*TMFD 123 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CYAF 493 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>Emphasis Electives: <span class="requirement-ital">Select one of three plans</span> – see adviser 15-16 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Professional Education Requirements 28</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 297J &amp; CYAF 397J (1 hr ea) 2 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 451 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 452 4 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 497J 10 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>*EDPS 457 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>SPED 401B 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>TEAC 425 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives 0-1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total Hours 120</p>
			<p class="asterisk" xml:lang='en-us'>* These courses are also approved ACE courses and together with the 30 hours of ACE required courses meet the additional ACE/General Education requirements for secondary education students</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE: </span>Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for CYAF courses.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Additional ACE Course Work for Secondary Education</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Secondary education students need additional ACE courses for a total of 40 hours to meet the requirements for the Nebraska Department of Education. One of the ACE courses must be an approved speech course. At least two of the ACE courses must be at the 300/400 level. Once again, there may be required courses within your program that will also satisfy these additional ACE requirements. Contact your adviser.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSION</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All education programs have a competitive admission process. At some point-in-time, after meeting specific education requirements, all students must formally apply to their particular education program.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Pre-Education Status</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All newly admitted students who are pursuing a teacher preparation program are classified as pre-education students until admitted to a specific Teacher Education Program.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Admission to a Teacher Education Program (TEP)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Admission to the College of Education and Human Sciences does not guarantee admission into a teacher education program. Admission to the advanced phases of teacher education is selective and, in some endorsements, highly competitive. Students must satisfy the following requirements in order to be eligible to apply to the Teacher Education Program:</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. A minimum 2.5 cumulative GPA.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Must have earned a minimum of 42 credit hours of college credit.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. Completion and submission of the Teacher Education Program Application Form.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. Completion of TEAC 331 and EDPS 251 or an approved transfer course, (must be taken prior to or be in progress, the semester in which you apply to the TEP) with a 2.5 cumulative average in the two classes, and no grade lower than C; TEAC 259 (must also be taken prior to or be in progress, the semester in which you apply to the TEP).</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>5. Documentation of proficiency in reading, writing, and mathematics through successful completion of the Praxis I, Pre-Professional Skills Test (PPST), a basic skills examination that meets the Nebraska Department of Education competency requirement.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>6. Completion of one course in communication studies selected from COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 210, or COMM 286, or approved substitute.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>7. Completion of a personal and professional fitness self-disclosure form (PPF) as well as the completion of a formal criminal history review, for CEHS, by the vender approved by CEHS (fee required).</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>8. Specific programs may have particular learning outcomes that students must address as part of the application process.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Other Admission Requirements</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Admission to Student Teaching</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All students who are candidates for an appropriately endorsed Nebraska Teacher’s Certificate are required to student teach. Students who plan to student teach in the fall semester must complete the student teaching application form and submit it by the preceding March 1 to the Director of Field Experiences in 116 Henzlik Hall; students planning to student teach in the spring semester must apply by the preceding October 1. The basic program for student teaching provides for a full-day experience for an entire semester. Admission to student teaching requires the following:</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. Matriculation in a teacher education program in the College of Education and Human Sciences, the Graduate College, or dual matriculation in the College of Education and Human Sciences and another college.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Admission to a specific teacher education program.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. Senior standing (89 hours or more) with a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. Minimum grade point average of 2.5 in the endorsement area with no grade below C.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>5. A minimum grade point average of 2.5 in pre-professional and professional education courses and no grade below C in pre-professional education courses and no grade below a C+ in professional education courses.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>6. All endorsement, pre-professional and professional education course work must be completed prior to student teaching. If necessary, no more than 6 hours of general education (ACE) or elective classes can be completed after the student teaching experience.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>7. No additional course work can be taken during the student teaching semester unless prior approval is obtained from the Certification Officer, the Director of Field Experiences, or the Department Chair that oversees the program.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>8. Completion of a second criminal history check that will be conducted, for CEHS, by the vender approved by CEHS (fee required). For more information, contact the Director of Field Experiences or your adviser.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Endorsement Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>80% of these endorsement requirements must be completed prior to enrolling in your first professional methods course. Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for CYAF courses.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 333 Families in the Economy </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 244 Scientific Principles of Food Preparation </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 245 Scientific Principles of Food Preparation Lab</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 250 Human Nutrition &amp; Metabolism </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>**NUTR 253 Cultural Aspects of Food &amp; Nutrition </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 372 Food Safety &amp; Sanitation </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>**TMFD 123 Clothing &amp; Human Behavior <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> CYAF 493 Special Topics: Teaching Clothing in Middle &amp; Secondary Schools </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Emphasis Electives</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Select one of three plans for additional content.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. Select an emphasis area.</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Nutrition and Health (15 hrs)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Hospitality and Restaurant Management (16 hrs)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Textiles, Merchandising and Fashion Design (15 hrs)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Family Studies (15 hrs)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Child Studies (16 hrs)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Health Occupations (15 hrs)</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Create an emphasis area by combining courses from two areas above. Select 6 hours from one list and 9 hours from another. For example, create a Child and Family Studies emphasis by selecting 9 hours in Family Science and 6 hours in Child Studies or vice versa.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. Select 15-16 hours of course work from any of the three Human Sciences departments (Child, Youth and Family Studies; Textiles, Merchandising and Fashion Design; and Nutrition and Health Sciences).</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Courses for each Emphasis Area</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Nutrition and Health—<span class="basic-text-ital">Select 15 hours</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 100 Nutrition, Exercise &amp; Health </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 131 The Science of Food </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 251 Nutrition Through the Life Cycle </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 253 Cultural Aspects of Food &amp; Nutrition </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 344 Food &amp; Nutrition for Healthy Living </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 430 Nutritional Anthropology </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Hospitality and Food Service—<span class="basic-text-ital">Select 16 hours</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>HRTM 289 Intro to the Event Industry </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>HRTM 373 Catering </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>HRTM 477 Hospitality Facility Planning &amp; Purchasing </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>HRTM 489 Advanced Event Operations </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 370 Food Production Management </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 371 Applied Food Production Laboratory</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Textiles, Merchandising and Fashion Design—<span class="basic-text-ital">Select 15 hours</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 123 Clothing &amp; Human Behavior <span class="list-ital">(If not selected in initial requirements)</span> <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> CYAF 493 Special Topics: Teaching Clothing in Middle &amp; Secondary Schools <span class="list-ital">(If not selected in initial requirements)</span> </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 206 Textiles </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 212 Product Development I: Apparel Analysis &amp; Development </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 213 Merchandising I: Textile &amp; Apparel Industry </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 225 Surface Design on Textiles </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 325 Woven/Non-Woven Fibers </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 407 History of Costume </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 408 History of Textiles </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Family Studies—<span class="basic-text-ital">Select 15 hours</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 285 Dating &amp; Couple Relationships </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 322 Advanced Family Finance </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 446 Addictions &amp; Families </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 458 Family Stress &amp; Crisis, Coping &amp; Recovery </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 488 Child &amp; Family Policy </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 493 Special Topics in Contemporary Family Issues</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 495 Special Topics in Family &amp; Cultural Diversity </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Child Studies—<span class="basic-text-ital">Select 15-16 hours</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 271/271L Infancy &amp; Lab</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 371 Methods of Working with Infants in Programs &amp; Communities </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 374 Curriculum Planning In Early Childhood Education </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 383 Literacy Methods for Young Children </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 384 World of Wonder: Math, Science &amp; Nature Integrated Methods Birth to Age 5 </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 210 Applied Methods of Social Emotional Development &amp; Guidance </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 210L Applied Methods of Social Emotional Development &amp; Guidance Lab</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 474 Assessment in Early Childhood </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Health Occupations—<span class="basic-text-ital">Select 15 hours</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 446 Addictions &amp; Families</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 471/PSYC 471 Sexuality</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>GERO 200 Intro to Gerontology</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>GERO 307 Death &amp; Dying</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>PHIL 106 Current Issues</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>PHIL 206 Medical Ethics</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>PSYC 280 Abnormal Psychology</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Supporting Course Requirements</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>**CHEM 109</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Pre-Professional Requirements</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>**EDPS 251 <span class="list-ital">(Must be taken prior to the Teacher Education Program (TEP) application or during the semester the TEP application is submitted.)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>EDPS 297</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TEAC 259 <span class="list-ital">(Must be taken prior to the Teacher Education Program (TEP) application or during the semester the TEP application is submitted.)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>**TEAC 331 or an approved transfer course <span class="list-ital">(Must be taken prior to the Teacher Education Program (TEP) application or during the semester the TEP application is submitted.)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>**COMM 109, COMM 109H, <span class="no-style-override">**</span>COMM 209, COMM 210, or COMM 286, or an approved speech class <span class="list-ital">(Must be taken prior to the Teacher Education Program (TEP) application or during the semester the TEP application is submitted.)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>**TEAC 330</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>LIBR 110</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 150 Life Skills for Success</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>**CYAF 160 Human Development &amp; the Family</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 222 Intro to Family Finance</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 270 &amp; CYAF 270L Development of the Preschool Child &amp; Lab</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>**CYAF 280 Family Science</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>**CYAF 380 Working with Families in Communities &amp; Schools</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 382 Parenting</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Professional Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Students must be admitted into this Teacher Education Program before enrolling in these courses.</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>**EDPS 457, SPED 401B, TEAC 425, CYAF 451, CYAF 297J, CYAF 452, CYAF 397J, </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Student teaching: CYAF 497J, **CYAF 403</p>
			<p class="asterisk" xml:lang='en-us'>** These courses also meet ACE requirements. See your adviser.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Requirements in Education Programs</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Requirements for completion of an undergraduate degree in a teacher preparation program include a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.5. Students seeking certification must also have a 2.5 GPA in their endorsement and education courses with no grade lower than a C in their pre-professional courses and no grade lower than a C+ in their professional education courses. </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Transfer Grades</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Up to 9 hours of transfer credit with grades below C may be applied to the General Education requirements and elective classes in programs leading to the undergraduate degree in teacher preparation. Transfer grades of C- and D may not be used in the major/endorsement area courses or in the professional courses in teacher preparation programs.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Pass/No Pass Grade Option–for Education Students</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A student enrolled at the University may, in certain instances, take a grading option of Pass/No Pass (P/N) for a specific course. A grade of pass represents satisfactory completion of a course with a grade of C or better. Credits earned under the pass grade option count toward graduation, but no grade points are tabulated in the cumulative grade point average. Likewise, a grade of no pass is not tabulated in the grade point average. The following rules apply to students who are enrolled in teacher preparation programs who choose the Pass/No Pass option:</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. Only one course in each subject endorsement may be taken P/N; two courses in a field endorsement may be taken P/N.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Pre-professional and professional education classes may not be taken P/N unless a class already has a P/N designation.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. Any course in the general education requirements unless otherwise stipulated by the department of the course may be taken P/N.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. Total P/N credits may not exceed 12 credit hours. This limit does not include courses offered on a P/N only basis.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL. </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Beyond Classroom Grades</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In all fields of study, students are expected to attain certain grades and other academic accomplishments in the classroom. In addition to this, students preparing themselves to be teachers, counselors and for other careers in education, are also reviewed to evaluate their ability to successfully and safely interact with children, parents, potential educational employers, and the community-at-large, whose interest in the education of its children often exceeds its concern for other community and governmental services.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>OTHER</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Student Teaching Placement</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Office of Field Experiences is responsible for the placement of student teachers. Several factors are considered in determining the district and school to which an individual is assigned. The availability of a cooperating teacher and supervisor who meet the requirements established by the Nebraska Department of Education and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln are among those factors. Opportunities to student teach out-of-state are limited and those placements are becoming increasingly difficult. All requests to student teach outside of the immediate Lincoln area must be individually reviewed and approved by the Director of Field Experiences.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Removal from Student Teaching</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students participating in practicum or student teaching assignments may be removed from their assigned schools if their conduct suggests a lack of professional commitment and presents a negative influence on the well-being or learning of the students in the schools. Specific guidelines that all student teachers are to follow can be found in The Student Teaching Experience: A Handbook for the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. If such a problem occurs, at the request of the cooperating teacher, building principal, and the College supervisor, the student will be removed from the school placement by the Director of Field Experiences. In such cases, a written report stating the problem and efforts to correct the situation will be forwarded to the Director of Field Experiences in the College Student Services Center.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Any student removed from a practicum or student teaching assignment may appeal that decision by submitting a written request to the College Appeals Committee within 30 days of the removal. The Appeals Committee will schedule a meeting, request pertinent information from the Director of Field Experiences, and notify the student several days in advance of the scheduled appeal meeting. Students are advised of their right to seek legal advice and may personally attend the Appeals Committee meeting. The Committee’s decision will be forwarded in writing to the student, to the Director of Field Experiences, and to the Dean of the College.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Application for a Nebraska Teaching Certificate</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>To actively engage in the teaching profession, a candidate must fulfill both the College degree requirements and the professional certification requirements of the State of Nebraska, Department of Education. Undergraduate students apply for the <span class="no-style-override-1">teaching certificate</span> online at www.education.ne.gov/tcert and apply for the <span class="no-style-override-1">baccalaureate degree</span> in 109 Canfield Administration Building. Post-baccalaureate students completing teacher certification also apply for the <span class="no-style-override-1">teaching certificate </span>online at www.education.ne.gov/tcert, and if they complete a <span class="no-style-override-1">masters degree</span> with their certificate program, apply for the degree in 109 Canfield Administration Building.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>To be eligible for a recommendation for certification, a candidate must meet the following requirements:</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. Earn one or more undergraduate degrees from the College of Education and Human Sciences or another accredited institution approved by the College of Education and Human Sciences with a minimum 2.5 grade point average.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Complete the teacher education general education requirements listed for elementary, middle grades or secondary education.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. Complete professional education requirements according to established standards.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. Complete endorsement(s) according to established standards.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>5. Successfully complete a required period of student teaching.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>6. Complete application for the degree and certificate.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Graduation Without Certification </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In <span class="basic-text-bold">rare</span> cases, permission may be granted for a student to graduate without a recommendation for certification. This provision is for the student who does not qualify for or is removed from student teaching. However, there are times when because of illness or other extreme situations, a student will decide not to complete all professional requirements. In this situation, the student should contact his or her adviser, then complete a formal request to the College’s Certification Officer to be allowed to graduate without completing all certification requirements. If permission is granted, the student is expected to complete all professional requirements except student teaching. This includes a passing grade in all methods courses. If a student fails to complete at least one half of the student teaching assignment, the individual will be required to complete a culminating project not to exceed 6 credit hours.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">Any student who graduates without a recommendation for certification will not be recommended for teacher certification in any state.</span> In addition, the student will not be eligible for graduation with honors. If, at some future time, the student wishes to complete certification requirements, (s)he must first appeal for readmission to a teacher education program. At least one semester must pass after graduation before the appeal can be made. If the appeal is granted, the student will be treated as a readmitted student and will complete all requirements in effect at the time of reentry, including passing grades in all methods courses.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Education Employment Services</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Career Services Center, 230 Nebraska Union, offers a professional placement service to students and alumni who are seeking employment in education and related fields. In addition to providing on-campus interviews with select schools throughout the year, this office sponsors an annual Education Recruitment Day in the spring, which offers students an opportunity to interview with hiring officials from many schools.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Felony and Misdemeanor Convictions</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS), along with the public and private schools and community agencies who provide services or programs for children, are all keenly attuned to the safety of the educational community, and particularly children in the classroom. We have the responsibility to ensure that our students who interact with individuals served by schools or other agencies meet a high level of personal, professional and ethical behavior. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Nebraska Department of Education policy requires that a person with any felony conviction or a misdemeanor conviction involving assault, abuse, neglect, or sexual misconduct shall not be allowed to participate in pre-student teaching laboratory and classroom experiences or student teach without approval of the State Board of Education. To comply with this policy, the College of Education and Human Sciences will require each student in a teacher education program to complete a “Personal and Professional Fitness” form (PPF) and two formal reviews of their criminal history, which is conducted by the approved CEHS vender. The first review and the PPF will be completed during the first semester of the individual’s entry into the College. The second criminal history background check will take place as part of the student teaching application process. Each student is responsible for the cost of the two criminal history reviews. Students in non-teacher education programs who interact with children in a public agency setting must also complete an official criminal history background check by the approved CEHS vender, upon entry into the College and prior to the student’s culminating field experience or internship and are responsible for the cost of the reviews. <span class="basic-text-bold">Each student who has completed an initial Criminal History Background Check is required to report any new charge or conviction acquired after the initial check, to the Director of Field Experiences.</span></p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>If a student does have any felony or any misdemeanor charges or convictions, he/she is required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Field Experience as soon as possible. This meeting will be held so that the student can receive guidance with respect to the impact of the conviction on the student’s future in the College, the State Board of Education approval and, more broadly, on the student’s ability to find success in the profession of education.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The College of Education and Human Sciences aims to train and graduate teachers of the highest caliber possible, and therefore, the standards the College sets for its students may be more stringent than the rules the Department of Education sets for field experience. A student should not assume that merely because the State Board of Education would approve placement in the field, that the College is willing to make such a placement, or that a participating partner school is willing to accept the student’s placement into its midst.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The consequences of one conviction compared to another may vary significantly, depending upon the facts underlying the convictions. Those facts are determined by the College. In some instances, the behavior associated with the conviction may be so egregious as to render placement in a field experience virtually impossible. In such instances, termination or long-term suspension from a teaching program may be appropriate. In other instances, a responsible passage of time without further criminal incident may indicate that the student has matured and is ready to reconvene his or her education. Consequences will very likely be different from case to case, as each of these difficult matters is unique. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that the safety of children in the classroom, the best interest of the student, and the reputation of the College, are all recognized and promoted. Failure to honestly disclose a conviction may be cause for disciplinary action separate from the conviction itself. Students willing to honestly address the challenges that arise from the past mistakes are more likely to reach a favorable outcome, than those who further jeopardize their integrity with a lie. </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In additional to criminal convictions, other non-criminal behaviors which: involve risks that are unacceptable for future teachers and the children charged to their care; demonstrate a lack of professionalism and good judgment; and evidence a disregard for one’s personal reputation, the integrity of the College and the teaching profession, may bring into question a student’s ability to be successful in an education career. Before engaging in such questionable behavior, students must consider how the College, the profession, educational employer, parents of school-aged children, and the community which is the State of Nebraska, would perceive or evaluate the impact of that behavior with respect to the students’ ability to serve children. To be allowed to teach is a great honor and a great responsibility. Teaching is a profession that requires its potential candidates to be individuals of the highest integrity. Prospective teachers must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and for their students. They serve as important role models and mentors for children during very impressionable years. Teachers are responsible for the education, safety and well-being for anyone in their charge. Indeed, teachers hold the future of all in their care. Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences is most interested in training future teachers who show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act responsibly. These individuals must be able to serve as representatives of our College and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. These standards and practices also apply to individuals in CEHS programs intended to serve children in a community setting.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Should the College, through the reasonable exercise of the judgment of its Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience, determine that a student’s individual behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons and others in the educational community, the College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to deny entry to or dismiss such a student from any program which leads to certification or to service of children in a community agency. More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum, pre-practicum, student teaching or similar field experience, since the interests and safety of the children, and young people present in the classroom, schools and other venues where these practicum experiences take place are paramount.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Problematic behaviors, which the College of Education and Human Sciences reasonably determines renders the candidate a risk to the educational community or demonstrates a likelihood of illegal activity, may be established by any credible means, including the facts surrounding a record of arrests and/or convictions.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Similarly, behaviors which result in a finding by a court or other governmental body that the individual is:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">a mentally ill and dangerous person;</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">mentally incompetent to stand trial;</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">acquitted of criminal charges because of insanity;</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">an incapacitated person;</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">a person in need of a guardian or conservator, or;</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">a person unable to manage his or her property due to mental illness, mental deficiency, or chronic use of drugs or chronic intoxication are the kind of behaviors which are likely to disqualify a candidate from participation in practicum experiences and other College of Education and Human Sciences programs.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Similar to the discussion concerning criminal convictions above, the consequences for unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will very likely be different in each case, due to the unique circumstances involved in each matter. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that safety in the classroom, the reputation of the College, and the best interest of the student, are all recognized and promoted.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Appeal to the Dean</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience with respect to a criminal behavior matter, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing within no greater than ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student’s written appeal shall clearly explain to the Dean the basis for the student’s appeal. The Dean will review the student’s basis for appeal, and is authorized, but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student’s written appeal. The Dean is authorized to collect such additional information as she or he deems necessary to review an investigation (including but not limited to the student’s educational records maintained by the College, other documentation, personal interviews and meetings with the student, College faculty, administration and staff, and others with relevant information). The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possibly, but in no case longer than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience or both, a written decision, which decision shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review within the University of Nebraska.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
