<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Family Science 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="family-science-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Family Science</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEPARTMENT:</span> Child, Youth &amp; Family Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span> Family Science </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Judy Hofeldt </p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Family Science provides a comprehensive program grounded in family science theory, research, and professional practice and application for individuals to work with children and families. This career path provides students with knowledge and intervention skills that will assist them in helping to prevent and remedy interpersonal problems experienced by individuals in their family relationships, building on the family’s strengths. In addition, Family Science will prepare students for graduate school (e.g. family science, family therapy, social work, counseling psychology, and law), or for employment in human services agencies or programs.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Degree at a Glance</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Requirements 30-34</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 1. 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 2. ALEC 102, COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 210, COMM 283, COMM 286 <span class="requirement-ital">(</span>S<span class="requirement-ital">upporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 3. ECON 215, EDPS 459, MATH 104, MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 108H, MATH 203, MATH 208, STAT 218 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3-5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 4. ANTH 242 &amp; ANTH 242L; CHEM 105, CHEM 109, CHEM 110, CHEM 113; ENTO 115 &amp; ENTO 116; GEOG 155; GEOL 101, GEOL 103; LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L; LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L; METR 200; NRES 108; PHYS 141, PHYS 142, PHYS 151 &amp; PHYS 153, PHYS 260 &amp; PHYS 262, TMFD 206 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3-5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 5. 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 6. CYAF 160<span class="requirement-ital"> (CYAF Core Requirements)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 7. 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 8. CYAF 150<span class="requirement-ital"> (CYAF Core Requirements)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 9. CYAF 495<span class="requirement-ital"> (CYAF Core Requirements)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 10. CYAF 497D<span class="requirement-ital"> (CYAF Core Requirements)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Supporting Courses 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>LIBR 110 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF Core Requirements 18-19 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 222, CYAF 280, CYAF 285 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CYAF 382, CYAF 380, CYAF 488 (3 hr ea) 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>Human Development 3-4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select one: </span>CYAF 270 &amp; CYAF 270L, CYAF 271 &amp; CYAF 271L, CYAF 372; GERO 200, GERO 307, GERO 446, GERO 447; EDPS 250, EDPS 251, EDPS 450, EDPS 451; PSYC 289, PSYC 446, PSYC 489</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Option Area: Choose <span class="requirement-bold">either</span> Option A <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> Option B 18-23</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-underline">Option A – Human and Community Services</span> 18</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 333 (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 446 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CYAF 458 (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 471 (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select one:</span> PSYC 380, SLPA 150, SPED 201 (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select one:</span> CYAF 416, EDAD 421, EDAD 422, EDPS 362 (3 hrs) </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select one:</span> CYAF 285, CYAF 322, CYAF 382, CYAF 446, CYAF 458, CYAF 493 (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-underline">Option B – Family Science Research</span> 21-23</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 333 (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 446 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CYAF 458 (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 471 (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 498 (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select one:</span> PSYC 380, SLPA 150, <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> SPED 201 (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select either:</span> PSYC 350 &amp; PSYC 450 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> SOCI 205 &amp; SOCI 206 (6-8 hrs)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Minor Requirements 18</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Approved minors:</span> Anthropology, communication studies, education, gerontology, global studies, leadership and communications, psychology or sociology. </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives 25-35</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total Hours 120</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF Core Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for all CYAF courses.</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 150 Life Skills for Success</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 160 Human Development &amp; the Family</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 222 Intro to Family Finance</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 280 Family Science</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 285 Dating &amp; Couple Relationships <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CYAF 382 Parenting</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 380 Working with Families in Communities &amp; Schools</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 488 Child &amp; Family Policy</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 495 Special Topics in Family &amp; Cultural Diversity <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ETHN XXX</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 497D Community Internships in Child, Youth &amp; Family Studies</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Human Development <span class="requirement-ital">(select one)</span>: </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 270 &amp; CYAF 270L, CYAF 271 &amp; CYAF 271L, CYAF 372; GERO 200, GERO 307, GERO 446, GERO 447; EDPS 250, EDPS 251, EDPS 450, EDPS 451; PSYC 289, PSYC 446, PSYC 489</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Supporting Courses</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>LIBR 110</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ALEC 102, COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 210, COMM 283, <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> COMM 286</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 215, EDPS 459, MATH 104, MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 108H, MATH 203, MATH 208, <span class="requirement-bold">or </span>STAT 218</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Science Course with Lab <span class="requirement-ital">(select from)</span>: </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ANTH 242 &amp; ANTH 242L; CHEM 105, CHEM 109, CHEM 110, CHEM 113; ENTO 115 &amp; ENTO 116; GEOG 155; GEOL 101, GEOL 103; LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L; LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L; METR 200; NRES 108; PHYS 141, PHYS 142, PHYS 151 &amp; PHYS 153, PHYS 260 &amp; PHYS 262; TMFD 206</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students must select either an Option A or Option B career path. Courses taken that fulfill the requirements of other categories may not be counted for these credits.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Option A – Human and Community Services </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This option is for students wanting to work with children and families in human services and youth organizations.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 333 Families in the Economy</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 446 Addictions &amp; Families <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CYAF 458 Family Stress &amp; Crisis, Coping &amp; Recovery</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 471 Human Sexuality &amp; Society</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Atypical Development <span class="requirement-ital">(select one)</span>: PSYC 380, SLPA 150, SPED 201</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Educational Programming/Learning <span class="requirement-ital">(select one)</span>: CYAF 416, EDAD 421, EDAD 422, EDPS 362</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF Elective <span class="requirement-ital">(select one)</span>: CYAF 285, CYAF 322, CYAF 382, CYAF 446, CYAF 458, CYAF 493</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Option B – Family Science Research</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This option is for students planning to pursue an advanced degree in family science or marriage and family therapy. Must have a 3.0 GPA for this option.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 333 Families in the Economy</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 446 Addictions &amp; Families <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CYAF 458 Family Stress &amp; Crisis, Coping &amp; Recovery</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 471 Human Sexuality &amp; Society</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Atypical Development <span class="requirement-ital">(select one)</span>: PSYC 380, SLPA 150, SPED 201</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PSYC 350 Research Methods &amp; Data Analysis &amp; PSYC 450 Advanced Research Methods &amp; Analysis <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> SOCI 205 Intro to Social Research I &amp; SOCI 206 Intro to Social Research II</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CYAF 498 Research UCARE, REU, Non-UCARE Research Experience in Child, Youth &amp; Family Studies</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Minor Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All family science majors must have a minor or area of concentration (18 hrs). Examples of approved minors: anthropology, communication studies, education, gerontology, global studies, leadership and communications, psychology or sociology.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>OTHER</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Felony and Misdemeanor Convictions</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS), along with the public and private schools and community agencies who provide services or programs for children, are all keenly attuned to the safety of the educational community, and particularly children in the classroom. We have the responsibility to ensure that our students who interact with individuals served by schools or other agencies meet a high level of personal, professional and ethical behavior. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Nebraska Department of Education policy requires that a person with any felony conviction or a misdemeanor conviction involving assault, abuse, neglect, or sexual misconduct shall not be allowed to participate in pre-student teaching laboratory and classroom experiences or student teach without approval of the State Board of Education. To comply with this policy, the College of Education and Human Sciences will require each student in a teacher education program to complete a “Personal and Professional Fitness” form (PPF) and two formal reviews of their criminal history, which is conducted by the approved CEHS vender. The first review and the PPF will be completed during the first semester of the individual’s entry into the College. The second criminal history background check will take place as part of the student teaching application process. Each student is responsible for the cost of the two criminal history reviews. Students in non-teacher education programs who interact with children in a public agency setting must also complete an official criminal history background check by the approved CEHS vender, upon entry into the College and prior to the student’s culminating field experience or internship and are responsible for the cost of the reviews. <span class="basic-text-bold">Each student who has completed an initial Criminal History Background Check is required to report any new charge or conviction acquired after the initial check, to the Director of Field Experiences.</span></p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>If a student does have any felony or any misdemeanor charges or convictions, he/she is required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Field Experience as soon as possible. This meeting will be held so that the student can receive guidance with respect to the impact of the conviction on the student’s future in the College, the State Board of Education approval and, more broadly, on the student’s ability to find success in the profession of education.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The College of Education and Human Sciences aims to train and graduate teachers of the highest caliber possible, and therefore, the standards the College sets for its students may be more stringent than the rules the Department of Education sets for field experience. A student should not assume that merely because the State Board of Education would approve placement in the field, that the College is willing to make such a placement, or that a participating partner school is willing to accept the student’s placement into its midst.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The consequences of one conviction compared to another may vary significantly, depending upon the facts underlying the convictions. Those facts are determined by the College. In some instances, the behavior associated with the conviction may be so egregious as to render placement in a field experience virtually impossible. In such instances, termination or long-term suspension from a teaching program may be appropriate. In other instances, a responsible passage of time without further criminal incident may indicate that the student has matured and is ready to reconvene his or her education. Consequences will very likely be different from case to case, as each of these difficult matters is unique. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that the safety of children in the classroom, the best interest of the student, and the reputation of the College, are all recognized and promoted. Failure to honestly disclose a conviction may be cause for disciplinary action separate from the conviction itself. Students willing to honestly address the challenges that arise from the past mistakes are more likely to reach a favorable outcome, than those who further jeopardize their integrity with a lie. </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In additional to criminal convictions, other non-criminal behaviors which: involve risks that are unacceptable for future teachers and the children charged to their care; demonstrate a lack of professionalism and good judgment; and evidence a disregard for one’s personal reputation, the integrity of the College and the teaching profession, may bring into question a student’s ability to be successful in an education career. Before engaging in such questionable behavior, students must consider how the College, the profession, educational employer, parents of school-aged children, and the community which is the State of Nebraska, would perceive or evaluate the impact of that behavior with respect to the students’ ability to serve children. To be allowed to teach is a great honor and a great responsibility. Teaching is a profession that requires its potential candidates to be individuals of the highest integrity. Prospective teachers must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and for their students. They serve as important role models and mentors for children during very impressionable years. Teachers are responsible for the education, safety and well-being for anyone in their charge. Indeed, teachers hold the future of all in their care. Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences is most interested in training future teachers who show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act responsibly. These individuals must be able to serve as representatives of our College and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. These standards and practices also apply to individuals in CEHS programs intended to serve children in a community setting.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Should the College, through the reasonable exercise of the judgment of its Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience, determine that a student’s individual behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons and others in the educational community, the College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to deny entry to or dismiss such a student from any program which leads to certification or to service of children in a community agency. More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum, pre-practicum, student teaching or similar field experience, since the interests and safety of the children, and young people present in the classroom, schools and other venues where these practicum experiences take place are paramount.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Problematic behaviors, which the College of Education and Human Sciences reasonably determines renders the candidate a risk to the educational community or demonstrates a likelihood of illegal activity, may be established by any credible means, including the facts surrounding a record of arrests and/or convictions.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Similarly, behaviors which result in a finding by a court or other governmental body that the individual is:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">a mentally ill and dangerous person;</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">mentally incompetent to stand trial;</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">acquitted of criminal charges because of insanity;</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">an incapacitated person;</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">a person in need of a guardian or conservator, or;</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">a person unable to manage his or her property due to mental illness, mental deficiency, or chronic use of drugs or chronic intoxication are the kind of behaviors which are likely to disqualify a candidate from participation in practicum experiences and other College of Education and Human Sciences programs.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Similar to the discussion concerning criminal convictions above, the consequences for unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will very likely be different in each case, due to the unique circumstances involved in each matter. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that safety in the classroom, the reputation of the College, and the best interest of the student, are all recognized and promoted.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Appeal to the Dean</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience with respect to a criminal behavior matter, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing within no greater than ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student’s written appeal shall clearly explain to the Dean the basis for the student’s appeal. The Dean will review the student’s basis for appeal, and is authorized, but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student’s written appeal. The Dean is authorized to collect such additional information as she or he deems necessary to review an investigation (including but not limited to the student’s educational records maintained by the College, other documentation, personal interviews and meetings with the student, College faculty, administration and staff, and others with relevant information). The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possibly, but in no case longer than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience or both, a written decision, which decision shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review within the University of Nebraska.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
