<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Geography</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="geography">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Geography</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Geography</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> David Wishart</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Chair: James Merchant,</span><span class="generated-style"> 306 Hardin Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Amedeo, Archer, Dewey, Lawson (emeritus), Lonsdale (emeritus), Merchant, Narumalani, Rundquist, Stoddard (emeritus), Wilhite, Wishart</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Hanson, Zygielbaum</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Guan</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Research Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Knutson, Wardlow</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The program of geography offers a wide variety of courses leading to the bachelor of arts and bachelor of science degrees in geography. The objectives of these programs are: 1) to support the goals of a broad liberal education by increasing awareness of the spatial, regional, and environmental aspects of the earth and its peoples; and 2) to provide a specialized knowledge of environmental processes, human-environment relations, American and foreign areas and cultures, and geographic techniques such as cartography, remote sensing and geographic information analysis. An education in geography prepares students for careers in government agencies as well as those involved with foreign service, land management, tourism, health care delivery systems, environmental assessment, transportation development, land use planning, air traffic control, GIS and cartographic analysis, and in a wide variety of businesses, particularly those concerned with environmental mapping, geographic information systems, and planning. A geography major also prepares students for graduate-level degrees in geography, law (especially environmental law), international business, urban and regional planning, and teaching at all levels.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Major in Geography</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The major in geography consists of seven mandatory courses with a common core in human-environment relations. Students should begin their programs with introductory physical and human courses, then move to courses dealing with environmental issues, world regions, and courses in techniques of acquiring, mapping and displaying geographic data. An undergraduate seminar which covers historical and philosophical aspects of geography as well as practical matters such as jobs and graduate schools, completes the set of mandatory courses. Beyond this core of required courses are nine hours of electives.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span><span class="generated-style"> The advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy in geography are offered. For details on these programs, see the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The major entails a total of 30 hours distributed as follows:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 140 Introductory Human Geography </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> GEOG 120 Economic Geography 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 155 Elements of Physical Geography 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 181 Quality of the Environment 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 272 World Regions 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Techniques (see course listing),</span><span class="requirement-ital"> with at least 3 hrs numbered 400 or above</span><span class="generated-style"> 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 402 Undergraduate Seminar (Senior Seminar) 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Elective Geography courses 9</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Of the total 30 hours, 14 hours must be numbered 300 or above. Students wishing to combine a geography major with other majors, environmental studies, for example, should see the respective advisers.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required to complete written and oral examinations in the Senior Seminar, GEOG 402, over knowledge in all components of the major, as well as over more detailed knowledge in the student’s area of focus. Students will be informed of the scheduling and format of assessment exams in the Senior Seminar. Students will also be given exit interviews prior to graduation to gather their views on the effectiveness of the major.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Results of participation in this assessment activity will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">18 hours, including 10 hours in courses numbered 300 or above.</span></li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
