<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>History</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="history">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">History</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> History</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Ann Tschetter</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: William Thomas, </span><span class="generated-style">609 Oldfather Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Ambrosius, Berger, Borstelmann, A. Burnett, Cahan, Coble, Jacobs, Kleimola, LeSueur, Levin, Mahoney, Maslowski, Thomas, Winkle</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Akers, Coope, Garza, Gorman, J. Jones, P. Jones, Lawrence, Smith</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Ari, Curry, Der Matossian, Seefeldt, Steinacher</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department of History offers topical and period courses of general cultural and educational value to all University students to broaden their range of historical experience and sense of perspective. The particular aim of the history program is not only to provide knowledge for students who are preparing for a career in education, but also to give instruction that will aid those with interests in law, journalism, library, and museum work; in local, state, and national public service; and in business where a knowledge of domestic and foreign affairs is particularly useful.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Honors Program.</span><span class="generated-style"> The Department of History offers a four-year program of honors work beginning with honors sections in the introductory courses for freshmen and sophomores. For upperclassmen, the Departmental Honors Program consists of directed reading courses and seminars. In the senior year, an honors student is expected to prepare an honors thesis for a bachelor of arts degree with distinction.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work. </span><span class="generated-style">The Department of History offers the advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy. For details of these programs, see the </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span><span class="generated-style">.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The minimum requirement for a major in history is 32 credit hours. This requirement must include the following:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">6 credit hours in United States or Canadian history.</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">6 credit hours in European history (including British history).</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">6 credit hours in either Latin American, Asian or African history.</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">6 credit hours in the pre-1800 period. </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">HIST 250 The Historian’s Craft in the sophomore year or the semester after declaring history as a major.</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">HIST 450 Capstone Seminar in the senior year</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. To maintain and assemble a portfolio to include three examples of written work. The undergraduate adviser will inform students of the required contents, deadlines, and procedures.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. In their senior year, to complete an exit survey or participate in an exit interview. The undergraduate adviser will inform students of the scheduling and format of this assessment activity.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Results of participation in this assessment activity will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department of History accepts no more than 3 hours of credit taken Pass/No Pass for either a major or minor. This provision excludes HIST 398, which can only be taken Pass/No Pass.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Level Requirement</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">18 credit hours at the 300 and/or 400 level.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style"> 18 hours including 6 hours in courses numbered 300 and above.</span></li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
