<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Integrated Science Program 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="integrated-science-program-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Integrated Science Program</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR: </span>Integrated Science Program (Non-degree seeking)</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Non-degree seeking only</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Dann Husmann</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator:</span> Associate Dean Dann Husmann, 103 Agricultural Hall</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Many students are unsure of which degree program to choose when entering the university. In fact, over half of all students entering UNL change their degree program at least once. The following program is available for students not yet ready to make the decision.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Integrated Science</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The courses listed below compose a non-degree program entitled Integrated Science. The program is designed for students who are interested in a bachelor of science degree in the applied life sciences, agricultural sciences, natural resource sciences, or social sciences offered in the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, but are uncertain about a specific degree program. Such students will receive individualized advising and mentoring from a faculty member and be encouraged to participate in clubs and other pre-professional activities to help them decide which career path is right for them.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This list of suggested courses for the first semester should provide the student maximum flexibility while ensuring that courses contribute to any of the degree programs within the College as well as most programs in other colleges. During the first semester, students should contact Associate Dean Dann Husmann to identify an appropriate adviser(s) in a degree program(s) of their area of interest to plan appropriate courses for subsequent semesters. Students may be in the program for two years (62 credit hours). Students may declare a degree program at any time, but must declare a degree program at the completion of 62 hours.</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Semester 1 Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGL 150 or ENGL 151 or JOUR 200 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 103/AGRI 103 Intro to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 101, MATH 102, MATH 104 or MATH 106 2-5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Comprehensive elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 15</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Options:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>If interested in Natural Resources and Environmental Science: </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 101 Natural Resources Orientation (1 cr)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>If interested in Economics: </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>AECN 141 for humanities or social science</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>If interested in physical sciences: </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 141, PHYS 211/ PHYS 221 or MSYM 109 for BIOS 101/ BIOS 101L</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>If math placement exam MATH 106: </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Substitute STAT 218 (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>To learn about a particular degree program substitute humanities or social science with an entry-level course in one of the College disciplines.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
