<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>International Agriculture &amp; Natural Resources Minor 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="international-agriculture-natural-resources-minor-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>International Agriculture &amp; Natural Resources Minor</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR: </span>International Agriculture &amp; Natural Resources (Minor only)</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 12 or 18</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator:</span> Professor Ousmane Youm, 103 Agricultural Hall</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Brink, Husmann, Francis, Mason, Powell, Schinstock, Peterson, Weller, Fulginiti</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor:</span> Yiannaka</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span> Thomas</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice:</span> Hardin</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Undergraduate Adviser:</span> Swartz</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The International Agriculture and Natural Resources minor is designed for students who seek a broad understanding of the nature and role of agriculture and natural resources in the integrated world economy and of the implications of world events for agriculture and natural resources in both the United States and abroad. The minor adds a global perspective to professional preparation. It is for students who desire a broad understanding of international trade and development issues as well as for those seeking employment in business firms or government agencies with international operations or interests.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students typically build their minor program from courses organized around three areas: 1) a group of international courses in CASNR; 2) complimentary international courses offered in arts and sciences, and business administration; and 3) optional but highly recommended modern language instruction or experience as a base for building international communications skills. Two minor plans are available. One plan requires 12 credits in courses at or above the 300 level while the other plan requires 18 credits, including a minimum of 6 credits in courses at or above the 300 level.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>12-Credit-Hour Plan</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Overall 12 credits in approved courses* at or above the 300 level</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Minimum 3 credits in CASNR courses other than Independent Study, AGRI 310 or NRES 315</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 6 credits from any one department or program</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 6 credits of modern languages at or above the 200 level</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 3 credits of Independent Study and AGRI 310 or NRES 315 combined</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>18-Credit-Hour Plan</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Overall 18 credits in approved courses*</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Minimum 6 credits in CASNR courses</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Minimum 6 credits in courses at or above the 300 level</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 9 credits from any one department or program</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 6 credits of modern languages at or above the 200 level</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 3 credits of Independent Study</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 3 credits of AGRI 310 or NRES 315 </li>
			</ul>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A student in consultation with the academic adviser and a minor adviser (chosen from those above) prepares a list of courses on the CASNR Application for Minor form, obtains the appropriate signatures and submits the minor form to the minor coordinator prior to deadline for submitting the application for graduation. While students may apply during their senior year, planning for the minor and application are recommended earlier in order to get maximum benefit from the minor.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Upon approval, the minor program will be forwarded to the University Registrar, with a copy supplied to the student’s college. The minor will be recorded on the student’s transcript upon graduation. Students interested in pursuing an International Agriculture and Natural Resources minor should contact the minor coordinator or the CASNR Dean’s Office, 103 Agricultural Hall.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
