<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Interior Design</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="interior-design">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Interior Design</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Interior Design</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Design</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISERS:</span><span class="generated-style"> Betsy Gabb (pre-interior design); Assigned Faculty (interior design)</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Director: Betsy Gabb,</span><span class="generated-style"> 232 Architecture Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Gabb</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Hinchman</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Allisma, Ellsworth-Bahe</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chief Advisers:</span><span class="generated-style"> Pre-Interior Design: Betsy Gabb (bgabb1@unl.edu); Interior Design: Assigned Faculty</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Architecture also administers the interior design program. The four-year interior design program consists of a two-year pre-interior design program and a subsequent two-year bachelor of science in design (BSD-Interior Design) major. After completing a two-year curriculum in pre-interior design, students apply for admission into the College of Architecture’s interior design program. This interior design program is fully accredited by the Council Interior Design Accreditation (CIDA). The interior design program also offers a post-professional MS degree through the Graduate College. The graduate degree is also available through Extended Education and Outreach.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This four-year, undergraduate program is for the student interested in becoming a professional interior designer. The professional interior designer is a person qualified by education, experience, and examination to 1) identify, research, and creatively explore issues related to the quality of the interior environment; 2) perform design services in interior spaces, including programming, design analysis, space planning and aesthetics, using specialized knowledge of interior construction, building systems and components, building codes, equipment materials and furnishings; and 3) prepare drawings and documents describing the design of interior spaces in order to enhance and protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Upon successful completion of two years of pre-interior design studies and admission to the interior design program, students in the interior design program may enroll in the curriculum which leads to a bachelor of science in design (BSD-Interior Design) degree.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the 2-Year Bachelor of Science in Design Program–Interior Design</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Entrance Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To be considered for admission to the interior design program, applicants must:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Be enrolled in the College of Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Be in good scholastic standing</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Have completed the appropriate 1st and 2nd year pre-architecture or pre-interior design program of study</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Third Year Admission Process</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. An application for admission may be completed by filling out the online application. The program receives applications once a year in early February.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Applicants must submit a portfolio conforming to the defined criteria for the program applied for by the date posted at the completion of the spring semester.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Any applicant who has previously applied for admission and has not been accepted or who fails to enroll in the professional program in architecture or the interior design program after an acceptance must reapply in the regular manner. Students may apply for admission to the interior design program only three times.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Evaluation</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The faculty of the interior design program will carefully evaluate the applications for admission. The committee considers three elements in their evaluation: cumulative grade point average, a weighted grade point average, and the portfolio of student work. The weighted grade point average gives additional value to the applicant’s achievement in the required ARCH or IDES prefix course or transfer equivalents in the pre-professional curriculum.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Selection</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the interior design program will be awarded to applicants who show the greatest professional potential and have demonstrated scholastic achievement. The faculty reserves the right to not fill all available spaces in the professional program in the interior design program if determined that the remaining applicants have not performed at an acceptable level.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Interior Design Curriculum</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The pre-interior design curriculum begins with a two-year basic design core. This core introduces students to visual literacy and design fundamentals. The pre-interior design program is followed by two years of interior design instruction leading to a bachelor of science in design–interior design. The interior design program is fully accredited by the Council for Interior Design Accreditation (formerly FIDER).</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Architecture, and all four years of the interior design program, are located in Lincoln. However, we do offer the option to do the first two years of the program at UNO. After successfully completing the prescribed pre-interior design program at UNO, students may transfer to UNL and apply for admission to the third year of study in the professional program of the Interior Design Program. For more information about courses at UNO, or transferring from UNO to UNL, please contact Dr. Betsy Gabb at 402-472-9245 (UNL) or 402-554-2934 (UNO).</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">PRE-INTERIOR DESIGN: First Year, First Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AHIS 102 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism II </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 7)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 106 Intro to Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 140A Visual Literacy Lab: Analysis &amp;/or Composition </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span><span class="generated-style"> 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 140B Visual Literacy Lab: Perceptual Drawing </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span><span class="generated-style"> 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">English Composition Elective: ENGL 150 Writing: Rhetoric as Inquiry </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ENGL 151 Writing: Rhetoric as Argument </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 1)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE 6 Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">PRE-INTERIOR DESIGN: First Year, Second Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 141A Visual Literacy Lab: Color </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span><span class="generated-style"> 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 141B Visual Literacy Lab: Speculative Drawing </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span><span class="generated-style"> 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 143 Visual Literacy: Art &amp; Design 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 223 Computer Applications in Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH Elective: MATH 203 Contemporary Mathematics </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> STAT 218 Intro to Statistics </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 3)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">English Composition Elective: ENGL 150 Writing: Rhetoric as Inquiry </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ENGL 151 Writing: Rhetoric as Argument </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 1)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">PRE-INTERIOR DESIGN: Second Year, First Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 240 Architecture History &amp; Theory I </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 5)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 210 Fundamentals of Design 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Communication Elective: COMM 109 Fundamentals of Human Communication </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE 8 Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE 9 Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">PRE-INTERIOR DESIGN: Second Year, Second Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 241 Architecture History &amp; Theory II </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 7)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 211 Elements of Architecture &amp; Interior Design 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 300 Interior Design–Materials 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences Elective </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 4)</span><span class="generated-style"> 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">INTERIOR DESIGN: Third Year, First Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 301 Material Applications 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 350 Interior Design Studio I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 433 Interior Construction Documents 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 445 History of Interiors &amp; Designed Objects </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 5 or 7)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">Total 14</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">INTERIOR DESIGN: Third Year, Second Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 334 Building Environmental Technical Systems II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 351 Interior Design Studio II 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Open Elective 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">INTERIOR DESIGN: Summer Session (Between 3rd &amp; 4th Year)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 491 Selected Topics in Interior Design: Interior Design Internship 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">INTERIOR DESIGN: Fourth Year, First Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 318 Professional Practices for Interior Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 450 Interior Design Studio 3 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Behavior Elective: ARCH 456 Behavioral &amp; Social Factors in Environmental Design </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ARCH 457 Housing Issues in Contemporary Society </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ARCH 458 The Changing Workplace 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Open Elective 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">INTERIOR DESIGN: Fourth Year, Second Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 451 Interior Design Studio 4 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional History Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Open Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">Total 14</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">Total for Graduation 120</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must earn at least a C (2.0) in all courses with an ARCH, IDES, or LARC prefix to earn credit toward their degree. Students will be required to retake all core required courses with a grade of C- or below, but will not be required to repeat courses that were taken as electives.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">None of the required classes offered in the professional program are offered Pass/No Pass, but a maximum of 12 Pass/No Pass credit hours of humanities, social sciences, or open electives may be taken from departments outside the College of Architecture.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Courses taken outside the architecture, landscape architecture, or interior design programs to fulfill the upper level outside elective requirement at the 800 level or 900 level, with or without a 400-level counterpart, in a minor, collateral, or supporting area of work, can be taken on a Pass/No Pass basis.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Professional Program, Architecture, Landscape Architecture and Interior Design Manufacturing Methods &amp; Processes</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the first year are required to maintain both a semester and cumulative grade point average at or above 2.0. The standard rises to a grade point average of 2.6 in the second year. Admission into the third year of both programs requires a cumulative grade point average of 2.6. The College places students who fail to meet these standards on academic probation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Third and Fourth Year, Interior Design and Landscape Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the third and fourth year of the BSD program are required to maintain a 2.6 cumulative grade point average to remain in good academic standing. The program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Product Design Minor</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Director and Chief Adviser: Betsy Gabb</span><span class="generated-style">, 232 Architecture Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Faculty:</span><span class="generated-style"> Allisma, Bicak, Ellsworth-Bahe, Hinchman, Saroka, Day (architecture), Ford (architecture), Hardy (architecture), Hemsath (architecture), Hoistad (architecture) D. Jones (engineering), Pinnell (art)</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Product Design </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The common core of courses shared by students in the College of Architecture (interior design, architecture, landscape architecture) provides students with an understanding of the design and fabrication process at a range of scales. The minor in product design provides an opportunity to explore design at a smaller, yet related scale. It allows students to develop academic strengths that will prepare them for advanced study and careers in the design of objects that people interact with on a personal level, of a size and function related to human dimensions. This includes furniture and a variety of manufactured objects.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The minor is available to students in interior design, architecture, landscape architecture, and art.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for the Minor (18 credits)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A minimum of 12 hours of course work to include the following:</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">GRPH 221 Building Graphic Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 301 Material Applications 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 417 Product Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 275 Intro to Manufacturing Processes 3</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">6 credits of additional course work to be selected from:</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 418 Fabrication &amp; Construction Team 1-6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 516 Modern Craft 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 526 Digital Fabrication 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 482 Advanced Color Theory 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 484 Material Culture: The Social Life of Things 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES 491 Selected Topics in Interior Design: Branding 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IDES Signage &amp; Wayfinding </span><span class="requirement-ital">(course to be developed)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 370 Manufacturing Methods &amp; Processes 3</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
