<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Jewish Studies Minor</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="jewish-studies-minor">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Jewish Studies Minor</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Jewish Studies (Minor only)</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Minor only</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 18</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Naomi Leite</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Jean Cahan,</span><span class="generated-style"> 324 Seaton Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Director and Chief Adviser: </span><span class="generated-style">Naomi Leite, 324 Seaton Hall </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Faculty: </span><span class="generated-style">Burnett (classics and religious studies), Cahan (philosophy and political science), Crawford (classics and religious studies), Der Matossian (history), Gross (Judaic studies), Kohen (political science), Leite (anthropology), Steinacher (history), Turner (classics and religious studies)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Jewish Studies is an interdisciplinary program housed in the Norman and Bernice Harris Center for Judaic Studies, 324 Seaton Hall. The minor in Jewish Studies is for students of diverse disciplinary backgrounds who are interested in Jewish cultures and peoples, past and present; the ways in which Judaism and other religious traditions have influenced each other, Near Eastern and Middle Eastern history and politics; and/or the origins and effects of anti-Semitism and other forms of discrimination. Courses in Jewish Studies are offered by cooperating faculty in departments in the College of Arts and Sciences including: anthropology, classics, English, history, modern languages and literatures, philosophy, political science, psychology, religious studies, and sociology. Language courses in Biblical Hebrew are available. Students minoring in Jewish Studies are eligible for several scholarships awarded by the Harris Center for Judaic Studies.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Advising.</span><span class="generated-style"> Students are encouraged to meet with the Jewish Studies program adviser as early as possible to discuss their intention to pursue the minor. Courses with significant Jewish Studies content that are not listed below may be eligible for approval as electives.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">18 hours taken from:</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">a. 2 core courses: HIST 219 Intro to Jewish History and JUDS 350 Literature of Judaism</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">b. 12 hrs of electives in any combination chosen from List 1 and List 2</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Credits earned using the Pass/No Pass option do not count toward this minor.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Elective Courses</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">List 1 – Jewish Studies</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JUDS 205 Intro to the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JUDS 217 Israel: The Holy Land</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JUDS 308 Dead Sea Scrolls</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JUDS 331 Ancient Israel</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JUDS 332 Jews in the Middle Ages</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JUDS 333 Jews in the Modern World</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JUDS 340 Women in the Biblical World</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JUDS 398 Special Topics in Judaic Studies</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JUDS 406 Second Temple Judaism</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">List 2 – Other Departments</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 409. Religion of Late Western Antiquity</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 245J Jewish American Fiction</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 341 The Bible as Literature</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HEBR 101 Elementary Biblical Hebrew I</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HEBR 102 Elementary Biblical Hebrew II</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HEBR 301 Biblical Hebrew Prose</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HEBR 302 Biblical Hebrew Poetry</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 209 Ancient Greece</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 339 The Holocaust</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MODL 232 Jewish Idea in Modern Literature</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 116 Philosophy &amp; Religious Belief</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 223 Intro to the Philosophy of History</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 265 Philosophy of Religion</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 332 Spinoza</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">POLS 477 Israel &amp; the Middle East</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 217 Nationality &amp; Race Relations</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 452 Sociology of Religion</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
