<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Journalism</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="journalism">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Journalism</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Journalism &amp; Mass Communications</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Journalism</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Journalism</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Michael Goff</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bender, Berens, Botts (emeritus), Kebbel, Norton (emeritus), Starita, Tuck (emeritus)</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Anderson, Bullard, Frazell (emeritus), Kimbrough, Neal (emeritus), Pagel (emeritus), Quinlan, Thorson, Weber</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Winter</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Waite</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Journalism and Mass Communications offers three majors: broadcasting, journalism, and the combined area of advertising and public relations. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The journalism curriculum, combined from broadcasting and traditional print journalism programs, is built on intensive reporting and writing. All students are required to take courses in reporting and writing, copy editing, visual literacy, mass media law, contemporary issues in mass media and multimedia journalism. Elective choices include courses in magazine writing, depth reporting, feature writing, sports writing, business writing, science writing, photography, design, broadcast news writing, videography and advanced editing. Students may also choose an emphasis in broadcast production, in which they will enroll in courses in audio and video production.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Many of the journalism faculty members have extensive industry experience at media organizations such as The Wall Street Journal, The Miami Herald, The Detroit News, ABC News and The New York Times. The faculty continues to be connected to the industry, and its members are actively involved in professional media organizations. Students, likewise, are encouraged to further their professional goals through participation in student organizations such as the Alpha Epsilon Rho national broadcasting society, the Society of Professional Journalists, the Radio Television Digital News Association and the American Copy Editors Association.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Faculty members prepare students for the job market by combining class work with actual experience. The primary college outlet for student journalism is NewsNetNebraska, the college’s student-produced website. In addition, students have the opportunity to work on the Star City News, a weekly television news broadcast; KRNU, a professionally managed FM radio station; and regularly scheduled magazines, which publish the work of depth reporting and photography students.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The journalism program places a great deal of importance on professional internships, and students in recent years have worked at such media organizations as ABC News, The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Dallas Morning News, Fox News, The Omaha World-Herald, The Des Moines Register, The Norfolk Daily News and The St. Paul Pioneer Press, as well as numerous other newspapers and local television stations. The college also has partnerships with two media organizations that offer paid internships during the school year in Lincoln.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Omaha World-Herald, Nebraska’s largest newspaper, works with the college to teach a course called “The Real World” in which World-Herald staff members offer students insight into working for a newspaper. Each semester the World-Herald chooses four students to be “fellows,” and they work in the newspaper’s Lincoln bureau.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Additionally, journalism students achieve national recognition by successfully competing in such programs as the Hearst Journalism Awards, Sigma Delta Chi Awards, the Dow Jones News Fund editing internship program, the Robert F. Kennedy Journalism Awards and the Society of Professional Journalists’ Mark of Excellence Awards.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The courses required for a 38-hour major in journalism are as follows:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">JOMC 101, JOMC 162, JOMC 163, JOMC 164, JOMC 165, JOUR 201, JOUR 202, JOUR 302, JOUR 450, JOMC 486, JOMC 487; and 3 hours from BRDC 369, BRDC 370, BRDC 372, JOUR 303, and either JOUR 305 or a 400-level reporting course; and 6 elective hours from the college.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Students may complete two majors in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications by completing all requirements for each major; however, the second major in the college will not take the place of a concentration or any of the 80 hours required outside the college.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
