<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Landscape Architecture</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="landscape-architecture">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Landscape Architecture</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> College of Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Landscape Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Design (BSD) (end of two two-year segments); Professional Bachelor of Landscape Architecture (BLA) (end of the fifth year)</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 for BSD; 163 for BSD &amp; BLA</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Landscape Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Kim Wilson</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Director: Kim Wilson,</span><span class="generated-style"> 302 Architecture Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Day, Hoistad, Sutton, Wilson</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Rodie</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Betnar, Tang, Thomas</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chief Adviser:</span><span class="generated-style"> Kim Wilson, kwilson4@unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The primary responsibility of the landscape architecture profession is the design and stewardship of the built and natural environments. Therefore, landscape architects must be able to understand the process of nature and the impact human settlement has on ecosystems. This requires professionals to manage storm water, select appropriate plant material, and anticipate human impact all with an eye on a sustainable future.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The landscape architecture program seeks to increase students’ capacity for critical thinking, collaborative skills, and creative potential in service to the environment and humanity. Specifically, the curriculum provides the background and means for the student to:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Analyze and understand the relationship between humanity and the natural world it inhabits;</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Creatively explore the potential of interventions into the developed and underdeveloped environments;</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Search out new challenges and contribute to solutions through research and experimentation; and</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Participate in the community that makes decisions affecting the physical environment.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">General</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The landscape architecture program is a five-year course of study that has been subdivided into a two-year pre-professional, two-year para-professional, and a one-year professional degree unit. Students receive a bachelor of science in design (BSD) at the end of the two two-year segments and a professional bachelor of landscape architecture (BLA) at the end of the fifth year. At the end of the first two year pre-professional segment, students are required to apply for admission into the professional segment of the curriculum. This review involves an evaluation of the students academic record and a portfolio of their work during the preprofessional studies. The landscape architecture program is a candidate program for accreditation. It is anticipated it will be granted for all students as soon as it is allowed under the rules of accreditation defined by the Landscape Architectural Accreditation Board (LAAB).</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are required to take an array of courses in support of the core studio sequence in addition to the university’s general education courses. These courses include material in horticulture, architecture, planning, and engineering in addition to core landscape architecture classes. This curriculum exposes students to various issues facing the landscape architecture profession including plant material, soils, landscape ecology, construction issues, stormwater management, infrastructure and issues created by urbanism. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the Landscape Architecture Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">After completion of the first two years of pre-landscape architecture studies, either within the College of Architecture or at another institution, students may apply for admission to the architecture program.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Pre-landscape architecture majors should apply for admission to the professional program in landscape architecture. Successful applicants will have their major changed from pre-landscape architecture to BSD-Landscape Architecture option.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Available teaching resources and space capacities limit enrollment to the third year of architectural studies; therefore enrollment limits are established each semester.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Entrance Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To be considered for admission to the landscape architecture program, applicants must:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Be enrolled in the College of Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Be in good scholastic standing</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Have completed the 1st and 2nd year pre-landscape architecture program of study</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Third-Year Admission Process</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. An application for admission may be completed by filling out the online application. The Program receives applications once a year in early February.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Applicants must submit a portfolio conforming to the defined criteria for the program applied for by the date posted at the completion of the spring semester.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Any applicant who has previously applied for admission and has not been accepted or who fails to enroll in the professional program in architecture after an acceptance must reapply in the regular manner. Students may apply for admission to the landscape architecture program only three times.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Evaluation</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A faculty committee of the program will carefully evaluate the applications for admission. The committee considers three elements in their evaluation; cumulative grade point average, a weighted grade point average, and the portfolio of student work. The weighted grade point average gives additional value to the applicant’s achievement in the required LARC prefix course or transfer equivalents in the pre-professional curriculum.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Selection</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the landscape architecture program will be awarded to applicants who show the greatest professional potential and have demonstrated scholastic achievement. The faculty reserves the right to not fill all available spaces in the professional program in landscape architecture if it determines that the remaining applicants have not performed at an acceptable level.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the 1-Year Bachelor of Landscape Architecture Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students from both inside and outside the program must apply to gain admission to the 1-year BLA degree program. Applications are available in October from the department office and are reviewed once a year in February.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">All applications for admission are subject to approval of the faculty. Enrollment shall be limited by the teaching resources and space capacities of the program. An enrollment quota is established prior to each admissions cycle.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the professional program are governed by the rules, procedures and policies established in the landscape architecture program. These are published in the Student Guide or by official notification by the faculty.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Entrance Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To be considered for admission to the BLA Professional Program in Landscape Architecture, applicants must:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Have a 4-year degree from an accredited landscape program or its equivalent as determined by the program director</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Present a portfolio of design work</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Be in good scholastic standing</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Have a B average or its equivalent in past academic programs</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The faculty of the landscape architecture program require a minimum TOEFL score of 550 or 213 computer-based or 79-80 Internet-based score for all international student applicants whose first language is not English.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Evaluation</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A portfolio of an applicant’s recent design work will be evaluated by the faculty of the landscape architecture program and is considered to be a very important part of the application review process, along with the applicant’s educational profile, letters of recommendation (required for outside applicants only), transcripts, and application form.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Selection</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The limited number of spaces available each semester will be awarded to applicants who have displayed the highest abilities in a combination of scholastic achievement, design capability, and professional potential.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Admissions Committee reserves the right to reject applicants who, in its opinion, have not reached an acceptable level of design proficiency.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Landscape Architecture Curriculum</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The pre-landscape curriculum begins with a two-year basic design core. This core introduces students to visual literacy and design fundamentals. The pre-landscape architecture program is followed by two years of focused landscape architecture instruction leading to a bachelor of science in design. After receipt of the bachelors degree, students may continue with one additional year of study, leading to a professional bachelor of landscape architecture degree. The professional bachelor of landscape architecture degree is the degree accredited by the Landscape Architectural Accreditation Board (LAAB). UNL’s BLA Program currently has “candidacy” accreditation status from LAAB.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Architecture, and all five years of the architecture program, are located in Lincoln. However, we do offer the option to do the first two years of the program at UNO. After successfully completing the prescribed pre-landscape architecture program at UNO, students may transfer to UNL and apply for admission to the third year of study in the professional program of the College of Architecture.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For more information about courses at UNO, or transferring from UNO to UNL, please contact us.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">PRE-LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: First Year, First Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 101 Survey of Landscape Architecture: Approach, Process, &amp; Practice 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 140A Visual Literacy Lab: Analysis &amp;/or Composition </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span><span class="generated-style"> 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 140B Visual Literacy Lab: Perceptual Drawing </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span><span class="generated-style"> 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGRO 131 Plant Science (3 cr) &amp; HORT 133 Horticultural Plant Science Lab (1 cr) </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 4)</span><span class="generated-style"> 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGL Composition Elective </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 1)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Communication Elective: COMM 109 Fundamentals of Human Communication </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">PRE-LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: First Year, Second Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 141A Visual Literacy Lab: Color </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span><span class="generated-style"> 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 141B Visual Literacy Lab: Speculative Drawing </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span><span class="generated-style"> 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 143 Visual Literacy: Art &amp; Design 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 223 Computer Applications in Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 200 Landscape &amp; Environmental Appreciation </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 7 or 9)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH Elective: MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> STAT 218 Intro to Statistics </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 3)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 15-17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">PRE-LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: Second Year, First Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 210 Fundamentals of Design 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 240 Architecture History &amp; Theory I </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 5)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 212 Landscape Plants I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HORT 153 Soil Resources 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">PRE-LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: Second Year, Second Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 211 Design Studio I: Fundamental Methods of Design Process 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 230 Site Systems I: Materiality in Landscape Architecture 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 213 Landscape Plants II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGL Composition Elective </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 1)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 14</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: Third Year, First Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 310 Design Studio I: Site Design 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 330 Site Systems II: Grading &amp; Stormwater Management 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 340 History &amp; Theory in Contemporary Landscape Architecture 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HORT 467 Planting Design 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Elective (Open) 2 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: Third Year, Second Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 311 Design Studio II: Site &amp; Building 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 331 Site Systems III: Layout, Utilities, &amp; Construction Documentation 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 353 Hydrology 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CRPL 430 GIS in Environmental Planning 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 14</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: Fourth Year, First Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 410 Design Studio III: Community Planning &amp; Design 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CRPL 400 Intro to Planning 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 453 Urban Soil Properties &amp; Management 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 220 Principles of Ecology 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Elective </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 7 or 9)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: Fourth Year, Second Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 411 Design Studio IV: Urban Design 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 461 Urbanism 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 406 Spatial &amp; Environmental Influences in Social Systems </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> GEOG 361 Urban Geography 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Elective </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 6)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 14</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total for Graduation 120</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">BACHELOR OF LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: Fifth Year, Summer</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 495 Internship </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> Study Abroad Opportunity 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">BACHELOR OF LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: Fifth Year, First Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 412 Design Studio V: Ecological Planning &amp; Design 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 480 Professional Practice 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 486 Research Methods 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 487 Intro to Landscape Ecology 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 14</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">BACHELOR OF LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: Fifth Year, Second Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 413 Capstone Studio 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 497 Selected Topics in Landscape Architecture: Professional Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 497 Selected Topics in Landscape Architecture: Professional Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 497 Selected Topics in Landscape Architecture: Professional Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 14</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total for Graduation 150</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must earn at least a C (2.0) in all courses with an ARCH, IDES, or LARC prefix to earn credit toward their degree. Students will be required to retake all core required courses with a grade of C- or below, but will not be required to repeat courses that were taken as electives.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">None of the required classes offered in the professional program are offered Pass/No Pass, but a maximum of 12 Pass/No Pass credit hours of humanities, social sciences, or open electives may be taken from departments outside the College of Architecture.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Courses taken outside the architecture, landscape architecture, or interior design programs to fulfill the upper level outside elective requirement at the 800 level or 900 level, with or without a 400-level counterpart, in a </span><span class="basic-text-bold">minor, collateral, or supporting area of work, </span><span class="generated-style">can be taken on a Pass/No Pass basis.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Professional Program, Architecture, Landscape Architecture and Interior Design</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the first year are required to maintain both a semester and cumulative grade point average at or above 2.0. The standard rises to a grade point average of 2.6 in the second year. Admission into the third year of both programs requires a cumulative grade point average of 2.6. The College places students who fail to meet these standards on academic probation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Third and Fourth Year, Interior Design and Landscape Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the third and fourth year of the BSD program are required to maintain a 2.6 cumulative grade point average to remain in good academic standing. The Program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minors</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The landscape architecture minor is administered through the College of Architecture’s landscape architecture program. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The minor in landscape architecture is designed to provide a basic understanding of the nature of the profession of landscape architecture. Knowledge of landscape architecture history, theory, and context provides a useful addition to a student in any of the University disciplines.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The minor is open to all UNL students. Entrance to the minor is by application, grade review,and permission of the program director, Kim L. Wilson. Contact Leslie Brehm, admissions coordinator (232 Architecture Hall West, 402-472-4065, lbrehm2@unl.edu) for the application.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Required Courses 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 240 Architecture History &amp; Theory I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CRPL 400 Intro to Planning 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 101 Survey of Landscape Architecture: Approach, Process, &amp; Practice 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 200 Landscape &amp; Environmental Appreciation 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 340 History &amp; Theory in Contemporary Landscape Architecture 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 461 Urbanism 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 498 Topics in Landscape Architecture 1</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
