<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Management.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="management">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Management</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Business Administration</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Management</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 hours for degree (21 hours for the major) </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.5 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes–for CBA students only</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Gwendolyn M. Combs</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Gwendolyn M. Combs</span></p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Duchon, Luthans, Olson, Plowman, Schniederjans, Uhl-Bien, Welbourne</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Combs, Sebora, Swenseth, Trimi</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Batur, Chakrabarty, Harms, Pieper, Thornton, Titus, Tuggle, Yu</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor of Practice:</span> Jones</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> Nelson</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A major in management at the University of Nebraska equips students with the essential skills to effectively manage people and resources in today’s business systems and organizational structures. Our management curriculum prepares students for careers in leadership and supervision of employees in the workplace, starting up and managing a business, and utilizing the critical role of information in strategy and operations of the business world.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSION</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Major/Department Admission</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University Admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Core Requirements</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">All students, regardless of their major or interests in the College will take the following courses as part of the Business Core Intermediate Requirements:</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">MNGT 331 Operations &amp; Supply Chain Management </li>
				<li class="bullet-2">MNGT 350 Intro to Management Information Systems </li>
				<li class="bullet-2">MNGT 360 Managing Behavior in Organizations</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>and for the Business Core Advanced Capstone requirement:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-2">MNGT 475 Business Policies &amp; Strategies </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">NONE of these courses may be used to count toward the major.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">As noted in the College Degree Requirements section, all course work for the major must be taken for a grade.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">MNGT 398, MNGT 399 may not count toward the major or minor in management.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Specific Major Requirements</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M)</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 21 hours of course work for the management major. Students interested in pursuing the bachelor of science degree with a major in management will complete 9 hours of core management courses and one management Option consisting of four courses (12 credit hours) to meet the requirements for the Business Core Advanced-Major (BCA-M). </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Required Management Courses (9 hours):</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 311 Leadership, Communications, &amp; Teams</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 321/ENTR 321 Entrepreneurship &amp; Innovation in Organizations</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 361 Human Resource Management</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>The management major offers course work in the following Options of specialization:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Human Resource Management</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Entrepreneurship and Innovation</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Leadership in Organizations</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">General Management</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Management majors must declare one of these specializations as a formal Option within their major. Multiple options may not be chosen.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>OPTION: Human Resource Management</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Required Courses:</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 461 Strategic Human Resource Management</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 463 Compensation Administration</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 464 Talent Acquisition &amp; Staffing</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 466 The Regulatory Environment for Employment &amp; Labor</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Students pursuing the <span class="basic-text-bold">Human Resource Management Option</span> may wish to consider selecting from the following courses to fulfill elective requirements within the College. </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 365 Managing Diversity in Organizations</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 411 Leading People &amp; Projects</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 412 Negotiating &amp; Conflict Management</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 414 Leadership in a Global Context</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 481 Economics of the Labor Market</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>OPTION: Entrepreneurship and Innovation</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Required Courses:</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 421/ENTR 421 Initiating &amp; Managing Entrepreneurial Growth</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 422/ENTR 422 Managing Rapid Growth &amp; Change in Organizations</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 423/ENTR 423 Business Plan Development &amp; Decision Making</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">One course from the following list:</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT/ENTR 322 Family Business</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 365 Managing Diversity in Organizations</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 411 Leading People &amp; Projects</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 412 Negotiating &amp; Conflict Management </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 345 Market Research</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Students pursuing the <span class="basic-text-bold">Entrepreneurship and Innovation Option</span> may wish to consider selecting from the following courses to fulfill elective requirements within the College. </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 365 Managing Diversity in Organizations</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 412 Negotiating &amp; Conflict Management </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 464 Talent Acquisition &amp; Staffing</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 345 Market Research</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>OPTION: Leadership in Organizations</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Required Courses:</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 411 Leading People &amp; Projects</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 412 Negotiating &amp; Conflict Management</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 413 Building Ethical &amp; Sustainable Organizations</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 414 Leadership in a Global Context</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Students pursuing the <span class="basic-text-bold">Leadership in Organizations Option</span> may wish to consider selecting from the following courses to fulfill elective requirements within the College.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 365 Managing Diversity in Organizations</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 421/ENTR 421 Initiating &amp; Managing Entrepreneurial Growth</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 422 Business Plan Development &amp; Decision Making</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 464 Talent Acquisition &amp; Staffing</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>SCMS 436 Project Management</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>OPTION: General Management</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This Option is open to students who do not wish to specialize in one of the specified Options of the management major. In addition to the three core courses for the management Option, students must take 12 additional hours (four courses): three of these courses must be selected from the management options (Human Resource Management, Leadership, and Entrepreneurship, and one elective from the management or supply chain management systems course offerings.<span class="no-style-override"> </span></p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Required Courses - 12 hours (four courses)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from each Option:</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Human Resource Management</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Entrepreneurship and Innovation</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Leadership in Organizations</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Select<span class="requirement-ital"> </span>one elective from the management or supply chain management systems course offerings<span class="requirement-ital">.</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">(</span><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE: </span>SCMS courses that are cross-listed with MRKT are not allowed in this requirement.) </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Students pursuing the <span class="basic-text-bold">General Management Option</span> may select from the course bulletin to fulfill elective requirements within the College. </p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Additional restrictions beyond those noted per individual courses above include:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">NBR 6–ACE 9 – MNGT 365 or MNGT 414 can be double counted to fulfill NBR 6–ACE 9 AND course work for the major.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">MNGT 414 may also be counted for the IBCR. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">In any option where double counting is permitted, only 3 hours of credit are used; students must still meet the 120 hour requirement for the degree. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">In any option where double counting is permitted for NBR requirements and the major, course work cannot, in turn, be used for any minor.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">MNGT 121/ENTR 121, MNGT 331, MNGT 350/MIST 350/SCMS 350, MNGT 360, MNGT 398, MNGT 399 (Independent Study), and MNGT 475 may NOT be counted toward the major.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">BSAD 491 may count for a maximum of 3 hours credit, only for those students who take it as part of the Nebraska at China Education Abroad Program or the Senshu University Program, or for a transfer course from an international institution for which ‘management-related’ course work was done, evaluated, and approved for credit toward the major. </li>
			</ul>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR THE MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT </p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">The management minor is available to College of Business Administration students only. The college requires that 75% of the course work for the minor will be completed at UNL.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Management course work used for this minor cannot be double counted toward business core foundation (BCF) intermediate (BCI) or advanced-major (BCA-M; BCA-C) degree requirements, for another major, or any other business minor requirements. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">All course work for the management minor must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass).</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">MNGT 399, MNGT 499, may NOT be used toward the minor.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">To fulfill the requirements for a management minor, students must complete 12 graded hours of 300/400-level management course work.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'> As noted in the Options area, students may choose to take elective course work required for the degree in the suggested course options as listed under the areas of Options. See College Degree Requirements–Electives for additional options/restrictions regarding elective credit for the degree. </p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>C- and D Grades</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Same as College Grade rules.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Same as College Pass/No Pass limits.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>GPA Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Same as College GPA requirements.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Course Level Requirement</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'> MNGT 475 Business Policies and Strategies is the capstone requirement for ALL business students and is to be taken the final semester in the program. Refer to the course description for other specific course prerequisites. This course may NOT be used toward the major (BCA-M).</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
