<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Marketing.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="marketing">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Marketing</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Business Administration</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Marketing</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 hours for degree (18 hours for the major) </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.5 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes–for CBA students only</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: A. Dwayne Ball</span></p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Carlson, Gentry, Sohi</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Ball, Kennedy, Saini</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Eilert, Friend, Kumar, Zhao</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor of Practice:</span> Simon, Welton</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The field of marketing includes many different career opportunities such as advertising, distribution, marketing research, merchandising, marketing communication, retailing, product management, sports marketing, professional selling, and sales management. The management of activities related to the flow of both goods and services from producer to consumer has become increasingly important in this age of consumer-oriented production. This importance has increased the demand for well-qualified persons, both as specialists in technical aspects of marketing and as general marketing managers. New developments are appearing in quantitative analysis of marketing problems, in studies of consumer behavior, in international marketing, and in the social responsibilities of marketing. These developments hold exciting promise for the future.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Academic preparation for some careers is best achieved by combining marketing courses with courses in other departments of the University. For this reason it is important for the student to consult with a faculty member in the Department of Marketing before deciding on a particular course of study. Courses within the department include those from the following disciplines: Marketing, Marketing Communication, Distribution Channels, Retailing, Sales Management, Marketing Research, Professional Selling, Sports Marketing, Consumer Behavior, and International Marketing. Outside the College, courses in psychology, sociology, journalism, mathematics, communication studies, art, and geography may be helpful.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSION</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Major/Department Admission</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University Admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Core Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All students, regardless of their major or interests in the College will take MRKT 341 Marketing as part of the Business Core Intermediate requirements.</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 21 hours of course work for the major.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">As noted in the College Degree Requirements section, all course work for the major must be taken for a grade.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">MRKT 399/ MRKT 499 may not count toward the major or minor in marketing.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Specific Major Requirements</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Requirements for students interested in pursuing the bachelor of science degree with a major in marketing will complete 21 hours of marketing course work (plus MRKT 341 for the Business Core Intermediate requirement) for the Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M): </p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>6 required hours selected from:</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 345 Market Research <span class="basic-text-bold">or</span> MRKT 350 Marketing Information Systems <span class="list-ital">(if not taken in Business Core Intermediate)</span> <span class="basic-text-bold">or</span> MRKT 355 Marketing Metrics</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 442 Marketing Management <span class="list-ital">(capstone requirement for the marketing major taken during the final semester in the program. Refer to course description for other specific course prerequisites.)</span></p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>15 additional hours of marketing to be selected from the following courses:</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 225/AECN 225/EAEP 225 Agribusiness Entrepreneurship in Food Products Marketing</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 325/AECN 325 Marketing of Agricultural Commodities</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 345 Market Research <span class="list-ital">(if not selected or in lieu of MRKT 350 or MRKT 355)</span> </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 346 Marketing Channels Management <span class="list-ital">(if not selected for above requirement)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 347 Marketing Communication Strategy <span class="list-ital">(if not selected for above requirement)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 350 Marketing Information Systems <span class="list-ital">(if not selected or in lieu of MRKT 345 or MRKT 355, or used in lieu of MNGT 350 for BCI)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 355 Marketing Metrics <span class="list-ital">(if not selected or in lieu of MRKT 345 or MRKT 350)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 357 Professional Selling</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 425 Retailing Management</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 426 Services Marketing</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 428 Sports Marketing</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 441 Digital Marketing &amp; Electronic Commerce</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 443 Consumer Behavior: Marketing Aspects</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 444 Supply Chain Logistics Management</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 446 Quantitative Analysis in Marketing</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 449 Marketing Communication Campaigns</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 450 Strategic Database Marketing</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 453 International Marketing</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 458 Sales Management</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 490 Special Topics in Marketing</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">MRKT 399 may <span class="basic-text-bold">not</span> be used toward the major</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">As part of the Business Core Intermediate (BCI) requirements, marketing majors <span class="basic-text-ital">may</span> substitute MRKT 350 for the MNGT 350 requirement.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Note that although only one of MRKT 345 or MRKT 350 or MRKT 355 is required, a student may elect to take all, one as required and the other two as part of the 15 hours of marketing electives. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">The marketing curriculum specifies that MRKT 442 <span class="basic-text-bold">cannot</span> be taken until MRKT 341, MRKT 345, MRKT 350, or MRKT 355 and 6 hours of marketing electives have been completed. This is the capstone requirement for the marketing major and should be taken during the final semester in the program.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>While not required, students majoring in marketing may choose to pursue three different options and have these minors declared to pursue the course options. Course work will count toward the ELECTIVES in the College.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Advertising Emphasis requirements (12 hours):</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>9 hours from:</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>JOMC 160 Visual Production: Photography &amp; Videography or JOMC 161 Visual Design Fundamentals: Graphic Design &amp; Web (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ADPR 251 Principles of Strategic Communication (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ADPR 283 Writing for Strategic Communications (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>3 hours – <span class="no-style-override">One course from ADPR (300 or 400 level) or select one of the following from JOMC:</span></p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>JOMC 485 Mass Media History<span class="no-style-override-1"> (3 cr)</span></p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>JOMC 486 Mass Media Law</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>JOMC 487 Mass Media &amp; Society</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">JOMC 160, JOMC 161 and ADPR 251 have no prerequisites. ADPR 251 should be completed before ADPR 283. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">ADPR 283 must be completed before taking any of the 300- or 400-level courses.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Marketing majors must have the prerequisites for courses in ADPR and JOMC.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override-2">Marketing majors may minor in textiles, clothing and design by choosing either a Merchandising Track or a Merchandising/Design Track.</span></p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Minor in Textiles, Clothing and Design: Merchandising Track requirements (15 hours)</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Required:</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 206 Textiles (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 213 Merchandising I: Textile &amp; Apparel Industry (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 313 Merchandising II: Merchandise Buying &amp; Control (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="list-ital">Also select two courses from the following:</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 405 Advanced Textiles (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 407 History of Costume (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 408 History of Textiles (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 410 Socio-Psychological Aspects of Clothing (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 413 Merchandising III: Merchandise Development &amp; Sourcing (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Minor in Textiles, Clothing and Design: Merchandising/Design Track requirements (21 hours)</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Required:</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 141A Visual Literacy Lab: Color (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 141B Visual Literacy Lab: Speculative Drawing (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 143 Visual Literacy: Art &amp; Design (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 206 Textiles (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 213 Merchandising I: Textile &amp; Apparel Industry (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 313 Merchandising II: Merchandise Buying &amp; Control (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 314 Visual Merchandising (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>TMFD 413 Merchandising III: Merchandise Development &amp; Sourcing (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Minor Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Refer to: Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements. </p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Enrollment in upper-level marketing courses requires completion of MRKT 341 as well as other prerequisites. Refer to course descriptions for specific course prerequisites.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>C- and D Grades</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Same as College grade rules.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Same as College Pass/No Pass limits.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>GPA Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Same as College GPA requirements.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Course Level Requirement</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'> MRKT 442 Marketing Management is the capstone requirement for the marketing major taken during the final semester in the program. Refer to course description for other specific course prerequisites.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Marketing Minor</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">The marketing minor is available to College of Business Administration students only. The college requires that 75% of the course work for the minor will be completed at UNL.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Marketing course work used for this minor <span class="basic-text-bold">cannot</span> be double counted toward business core foundation (BCF) intermediate (BCI) or advanced-major (BCA-M; BCA-A) degree requirements, for another major, nor any other business minor requirements. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">To fulfill the requirements for a marketing minor, students must complete:</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">Twelve (12) graded hours of 300/400-level marketing course work. </li>
				<li class="bullet-2">All course work for the minor must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass).</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">MRKT 399 may not be used toward the minor (or major).</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>OTHER </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The marketing department requires and enforces that specific prerequisite requirements be completed by the first class meeting. Concurrent registration in a class that is a prerequisite for another class is <span class="basic-text-bold">not</span> allowed. Transfer credit assumes that the prerequisites have been transferred to UNL and appear on the transcripts.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The marketing department reserves the right to administratively drop students who do not attend the first class meeting and/or who do not have the appropriate prerequisites for any marketing class.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
