<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Mechanical Engineering</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="mechanical-engineering">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Mechanical Engineering</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Mechanical Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 129</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM cumulative gpa: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Jeffrey Shield</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Jeffrey E. Shield</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Chair for Research and Graduate Studies: </span><span class="generated-style">Mehrdad Negahban</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Barton, Bishu, Chandra, Cole, Dzenis, Farritor, Feng, Gogos, Hallbeck, Negahban, Rajurkar, Reid, Robertson, Shield, To, Turner, Yang</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Baesu, Bobaru, Nelson, Szydlowski, Tan, Williams, Zhang</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Gu, Huang, Lim, Ryu</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturers:</span><span class="generated-style"> Coen-Brown, Dick</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Mechanical engineering is a broad field of study that significantly impacts many technologies, including those that expand our energy resources and improve medical care. Mechanical engineers are concerned with all forms of energy conversion and transmission; the flow of fluids and heat; the development, design, manufacturing, and operation of machinery and equipment; material structure and properties; solid and applied mechanics; and transportation processes. The course of study is designed to give the student fundamental preparation to enter the fields of research, design, operation, production, sales, or management.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The mechanical engineering curriculum is structured so that students are well prepared in the fundamental areas of solid mechanics, thermal-fluid sciences, systems and design engineering, and materials engineering. Students can develop an emphasis area of study by concentrating elective courses in specific areas such as aerospace engineering, automotive engineering, robotics, biomedical engineering, computational methods, materials, manufacturing and others depending upon the technical courses available and the interest of the student.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Mission and Objectives</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Mission Statement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The mission of the Department of Mechanical and Materials Engineering at the University of Nebraska is to impact society locally and globally through our educational programs, research, and service, developing knowledge and sharing our expertise in the best traditions of land-grant universities. We strive for excellence in teaching and learning at both the undergraduate and graduate levels, seek to develop novel educational opportunities, grow our public and private support for research and education, and expand our scholarship, outreach and service.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Educational Objectives</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Within a few years of graduation, our mechanical engineering graduates are expected to:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. have started successful careers based on their education or have completed a professional degree or a graduate degree in engineering or related field;</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. have begun life-long learning and development in order to remain current in their knowledge and skills and to advance in their careers; and</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. have established a record of professionalism, leadership, respect and integrity in working to serve humanity and to use resources responsibly.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Student Outcomes</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The educational program leading to the BS in mechanical engineering ensures that students attain the following outcomes:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an ability to function on multidisciplinary teams;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an ability to communicate effectively;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">the broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a recognition of the need for, and an ability to engage in, life-long learning;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a knowledge of contemporary issues;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering practice.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for the Degree (Lincoln campus)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">First Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 111 Chemistry for Engineering &amp; Technology 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 109 and 110 may be substituted for CHEM 111. Only 4 credits count toward graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Electives 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Second Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 155N Computer Science I: Engineering and Science Focus 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 130 Intro to CAD 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 221 General Physics Lab I 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Or, instead, PHYS 222 General Physics Lab II (1 cr) may be taken in the Third Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Third Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 223 Engineering Statics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 206 Engineering Economy I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fourth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 325 Mechanics of Elastic Bodies 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 373 Engineering Dynamics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 200 Engineering Thermodynamics 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">METL 360 Elements of Materials Science 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fifth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 211 Elements of Electrical Engineering I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 231 Electrical Engineering Lab 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 314 Applied Linear Algebra (Matrix Theory) 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 310 Fluid Mechanics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 342 Kinematics &amp; Dynamics of Machinery 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Communication Studies Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course from the following: COMM 210, COMM 283, or COMM 286 (ACE 2).</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Sixth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 321 Engineering Statistics &amp; Data Analysis </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> STAT 380 Statistics &amp; Applications 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 300 Thermal Systems &amp; Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 343 Elements of Machine Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 350 Intro to Dynamics &amp; Control of Engineering Systems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 380 Mechanical Engineering Measurements 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Seventh Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 370 Manufacturing Methods &amp; Processes 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 420 Heat Transfer 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 446 Mechanical Engineering Design I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">The capstone design sequence must be taken in the order shown in the curriculum and should be taken in the last two semesters of the program (MECH 446 and MECH 447).</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 488 Kinematics &amp; Machine Design Lab 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Mechanical Engineering Technical Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Design and technical electives must be chosen from a list of approved 400-level mechanical engineering elective courses. Consult adviser for suggested choices.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Eighth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 400 Professional Ethics 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 447 Mechanical Engineering Design II 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 487 Thermal Fluids Lab 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Mechanical Engineering Design Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Design and technical electives must be chosen from a list of approved 400-level mechanical engineering elective courses. Consult adviser for suggested choices.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Senior Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Senior electives may be either another mechanical engineering technical elective, another mechanical engineering design elective, or, with prior written approval of your adviser, a 300 or higher level engineering, science, or math course.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, or 9.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Credit Hours Required 129</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Admittance to Degree Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are expected to meet minimum college entrance requirements. After being admitted to the college as pre-mechanical engineering students, students wishing to pursue a degree in mechanical engineering must further be admitted to the degree program. Students who have completed 43 credit hours applicable to their mechanical engineering degree are considered for formal admission to the eechanical engineering degree program. Typically, this occurs the semester the student is enrolled in MECH 200 or METL 360. Those exceeding 61 credit hours must receive formal admission to the mechanical engineering degree program if they are to continue to take mechanical engineering courses. Transfer students must have at least 12 credit hours of course work from the University of Nebraska on record before an application will be considered. Applications are judged on a competitive academic performance basis; consult your adviser or the Department of Mechanical and Materials Engineering for specific details. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Hands-on Opportunities</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">One major focus of the Department is to provide students with many hands-on opportunities both within the curriculum (through formal laboratory courses) and through extracurricular activities. Brief descriptions of some of the laboratories in the department are given below.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Materials Laboratory</span><span class="generated-style"> is designed to study the development of microstructures during processing, and to correlate the properties of materials with the observed structures. Undergraduates utilize arc melting facilities for solidification processing and alloy formation, rolling mills for deformation processing, and a variety of furnaces for thermal treatments. Characterization facilities include x-ray diffractometry and optical microscopy, while property measurements are completed using hardness testing (including microhardness), tensile testing, and impact testing facilities. Other facilities associated with the materials laboratory include rapid solidification processing facilities and electron microscopy facilities.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Measurements Laboratory</span><span class="generated-style"> is associated with the required MECH 380 Mechanical Engineering Measurements course which includes two hours of lecture and two hours of laboratory work each week. The course covers the fundamentals of mechanical engineering measurements including data analysis (statistics, graphing, spectral analysis), signal conditioning, data readout, and the measurement of length/displacement, rate of rotation, stress/strain, temperature, pressure, fluid velocity, fluid flowrate, vibration/acceleration, and sound. The MECH 380 Lab has four workbenches. Each workbench has set of basic measurement equipment including a digital oscilloscope, an electronic counter, a digital multimeter, a DC power supply, a function generator, and a computer-based data acquisition system consisting of a personal computer with data acquisition software and interfaced analog-to-digital converter and digital counter cards. In addition, on a week-to-week basis, specialized equipment is brought out of the cabinets and set up for each of the nine (some one week, some two week) labs.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Kinematics and Machine Design Laboratory</span><span class="generated-style"> is a teaching laboratory for undergraduate students. The laboratory consists of equipment and instruments for conducting experiments in kinematics and machine design. One piece of major equipment is the rapid prototyping machine, which accepts design specifications from a computer and forms a prototype of the design using plastic injection. This machine provides the student with experience in design integration from concept to product. We have also recently upgraded the rapid prototyping laboratory with the acquisition of the MakerBot Thing-O-Matic 3-D printer kit. This 3D printer uses ABS plastic to create rapid prototyped objects with better than 1 mm feature resolution; it accepts standard CAD models converted to g-code and is a low-cost alternative to high-end rapid prototyping services or equipment. Accessories in this laboratory include desktop computers, a wide-carriage printer, and other instruments. Kawasaki also donated a retired robot that is now utilized in this laboratory. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Thermal Fluids Laboratory</span><span class="generated-style"> involves design, execution and evaluation of physical experiments in the areas of thermodynamics, fluid mechanics, and heat transfer. There are three major, heavily-instrumented experiments: 1) a two stage air-compressor with intercooling, 2) a versatile air conditioning unit, and 3) a Ford gasoline engine with a Superflow water brake dynamometer, supported with a data acquisition system. The course involves design, execution and evaluation of physical experiments in the areas of thermodynamics, fluid mechanics, and heat transfer. In addition, the facilities include “table top” instrumentation for viscosity measurement, measurement of pressure distribution on an airfoil, flow visualization and head loss across a valve on which students conduct experiments. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Mechatronics Laboratory</span><span class="generated-style"> is well-equipped for teaching courses in mechatronics and robotics. It is used primarily for MECH 457, but is also used for other courses, and by both undergraduate and graduate students working on research projects. The laboratory contains desktop computers, modular robots, digital oscilloscopes, function generators, computer controllers, soldering systems, and many other accessories.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The Department also has computational facilities available to students. The computer lab has a suite of personal computers with a full complement of computing resources available to students. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Research Laboratories.</span><span class="generated-style"> These laboratories, extensions of those described above, are equipped for research in the fields of fluid mechanics, heat transfer, thermodynamics, turbulence, flow visualization, fluid mechanics, measurements, turbomachinery and engine research, combustion, materials, mechanical design, dynamics, computational, solid and applied mechanics, biomedical engineering, and controls. Many of our undergraduate students gain valuable experience working on research projects under the guidance of professors. These are funded by research grants or the University’s UCARE program.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Some of the extracurricular opportunities for students to gain hands-on engineering experience include SAE Baja, SAE Formula (both through Husker Motorsports), NASA microgravity, AIAA competitions, and others.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
