<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Nutrition &amp; Dietetics 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="nutrition-dietetics-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Nutrition &amp; Dietetics</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEPARTMENT:</span> Nutrition &amp; Health Sciences </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span> Nutrition &amp; Dietetics (Didactic Program in Dietetics) </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Judy Hofeldt </p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Nutrition and Dietetics (Didactic Program in Dietetics) option is designed for students who wish to become registered dietitians and practitioners in clinical, community, food industry, and foodservice areas of nutrition and may be employed by hospitals, community agencies, and various government or private organizations. The University of Nebraska–Lincoln Didactic Program in Dietetics is currently granted accreditation status by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, 120 South Riverside Plaza, Suite 2000, Chicago, IL 60606-6995, 312-899-0040, ext. 5400.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The process to become a registered dietitian involves three steps: completion of a bachelors degree with attainment of the Verification Statement of Completion of the Didactic Program in Dietetics; admission into and the completion of an accredited dietetic internship program; and successfully passing the registration exam to earn the Registered Dietitian (RD) credential.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Meeting requirements for the bachelors degree Nutrition and Dietetics option does not automatically result in the student being awarded a Verification Statement of Completion of the Didactic Program in Dietetics. Requirements for attainment of the Verification Statement are listed on the dietetics program website. The Verification Statement of Completion of the Didactic Program in Dietetics is required for admission into an accredited dietetic internship program.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Acceptance into an accredited dietetic internship program is competitive. Currently, there is a significant shortage of available internship positions for the number of students applying for acceptance into an internship program. Acceptance into an internship program cannot be guaranteed.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All required accreditation information and requirements for attainment of the Verification Statement can be found at http://cehs.unl.edu/nhs/undergrad/dietetics.shtml.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Degree at a Glance </p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Requirements 33</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 1. 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 2. 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 3. EDPS 459 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> STAT 218 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 4. CHEM 109 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 4 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 5. 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 6. PSYC 181 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 4 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 7. 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 8. 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 9. NUTR 253 <span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Requirement)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 10. NUTR 452 &amp; NUTR 452L <span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Requirement)</span> 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Professional Requirements <span class="requirement-ital">(A grade of C or above is required)</span> 40</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 100, NUTR 244, NUTR 250, NUTR 251, NUTR 344, NUTR 356, NUTR 370, NUTR 402, NUTR 450, NUTR 453, NUTR 455, NUTR 473 (3 hrs ea) 36</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 150, NUTR 245, NUTR 371, NUTR 490 (1 hr ea) 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Supporting Courses 29-33</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 101 or higher 2-5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 321 &amp; BIOC 321L 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 111 (4 hrs) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BIOS 312 (3 hrs) &amp; BIOS 314 (1 hr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> NUTR 372 (3 hrs) 3-4 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 110 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives 14-18</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total Hours 120</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
			<p class="asterisk" xml:lang='en-us'>* These (*) courses, required in your major, will also meet ACE Requirements.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Professional Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-ital">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for NUTR courses.</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 100 Nutrition, Exercise &amp; Health</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 150 Foundations in Nutrition &amp; Health Promotion</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 244 &amp; NUTR 245 Scientific Principles of Food Preparation &amp; Lab</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 250 Human Nutrition &amp; Metabolism</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 251 Nutrition Through the Life Cycle</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>*NUTR 253 Cultural Aspects of Food &amp; Nutrition </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 344 Food &amp; Nutrition for Healthy Living</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 356 Nutrition Education in the Community</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 370 Food Production Management</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 371 Applied Food Production Lab</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 402 Facts &amp; Fiction in Fitness &amp; Food</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 450 Medical Nutrition Therapy I</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>*NUTR 452 Medical Nutrition Therapy II</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>*NUTR 452L Medical Nutrition Therapy II Lab</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 453 Nutrition &amp; Fitness Communication Strategies</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 455 Advanced Nutrition</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 473 Organization &amp; Administration of Foodservice</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 490 Professional Preparation for Careers in Dietetics</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Supporting Courses</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>*EDPS 459 Statistical Methods <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> *STAT 218 Introduction to Statistics</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>*PSYC 181 Introduction to Psychology</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 101 College Algebra or higher, trigonometry or calculus </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 111 The Biology of Microoganisms <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BIOS 312 &amp; BIOS 314 Microbiology &amp; Lab <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> NUTR 372 Food Safety &amp; Sanitation (3-4 hrs)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L Human Physiology &amp; Lab</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 109 General Chemistry I</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 110 General Chemistry II</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 321 &amp; BIOC 321L Elements of Biochemistry &amp; Lab</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L Fundamentals of Biology I &amp; Lab</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L Fundamentals of Biology II &amp; Lab</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Grades Earned at UNL, UNO, UNK</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Grades of D-, D, D+, C- satisfy requirements of the programs in human sciences unless specified otherwise under the Programs and Departments section of the bulletin. Students who receive a grade of D-, D, D+, or C-, however, are encouraged to retake the course, particularly if it is in the major area.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Grades Earned Outside UN System</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Up to 9 hours of grades below C (C-, D+, D, D-) from other academic institutions can only be applied to general education requirements and elective classes. </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Policy for Pass/No Pass Courses</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Pass/No Pass (P/N) option is designed for students who want to study elective areas or topics when they may have minimum preparation. If used for this purpose, the option can enrich the student’s academic experience without lowering the student’s grade point average. Free electives may be taken P/N. Students can earn no more than 12 hours of pass credit excluding courses offered on Pass/No Pass only basis. Not all classes can be taken under the Pass/No Pass option. All courses, specified by course and number, must be taken for a grade. Should a student have earned a P in one of the courses prior to starting the option, the P will be reviewed by the appropriate department.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
