<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>PGA Golf Management 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="pga-golf-management-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>PGA Golf Management</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> PGA Golf Management</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="no-style-override"> </span>Bachelor of Science in PGA Golf Management</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Alan Baquet</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Alan Baquet,</span> PGA Golf Management Program, 203 Keim Hall</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Faculty Advisory Committee:</span> Heng-Moss (entomology); Karels (finance); Reicher (agronomy and horticulture); Schnepf (nutrition and health sciences)</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website:</span> http://pgm.unl.edu</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">For students who wish to be educated in all aspects of the golf industry and become PGA members. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">One of 19 accredited PGA Golf Management University Programs in the country.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Classroom instruction, a player development program taught by PGA professionals, and structured internship experiences provide a basic background in managing golf facilities and related organizations, business and personnel management, restaurant and hospitality management, recreation, and golf instruction methods.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">PGA Golf Management Student Club conducts many tournaments each semester.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Graduates are eligible for PGA Class “A” membership.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Additional PGA Golf Management fees apply.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSION</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Additional requirements for entrance to the PGA Golf Management Program</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Proof of playing ability equivalent to 12 handicap or better.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Letter of acceptance from UNL PGA Golf Management Office (no separate application required).</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Fall semester entrance only.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Core Requirements</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>College Integrative Courses 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AGRI 103 Intro to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Mathematics and Statistics <span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">(beyond college algebra) (ACE 3)</span> 5-6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> MATH 102, MATH 104, MATH 106 and STAT 218.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Communications 9</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Written Communication<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 1)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> ENGL 150, ENGL 151, ENGL 254; JGEN 120, JGEN 200, JGEN 300</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Oral Communication<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 2)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 286</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Leadership<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 2)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ALEC 102 Interpersonal Skills for Leadership</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Natural Sciences 10-11</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AGRO 131 Plant Science<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 4)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 105 Chemistry in Context I <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 109 General Chemistry I<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 4)</span> 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CASNR Approved Life Sciences<span class="requirement-ital"> (select one from):</span> 3-4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab (4 hrs)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 109 General Botany (4 hrs)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ENTO 115 Insect Biology (3 hrs) <span class="requirement-ital">(preferred)</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Economics, Humanities and Social Sciences 12</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Courses 12</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Select one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, and 9.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Specific Major Requirements </p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Additional Plant Sciences 8</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AGRO 153 Soil Resources 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PGAM 227 Introductory Turfgrass Management &amp; PGAM 229 Turfgrass Management Lab 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Food Service Management 9</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>HRTM 374 Guest Services Management 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>HRTM 373 Catering 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>HRTM 474 Food &amp; Beverage Management 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Business (constitutes Business Minor) 18</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACCT 200 Survey of Accounting 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BLAW 300 Business, Government &amp; Society 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 200 Survey of Economic Principles<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 6)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>FINA 300 Survey of Finance Principles 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 300 Survey of Management 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 300 Survey of Marketing 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> The above block of six courses is for non-business majors. If a student switches to the College of Business Administration, these courses will not satisfy requirements for a business major or minor.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>PGAM Courses 24</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PGAM 101 Intro to Professional Golf Management 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PGAM 112 PGM Professional Development: First Year 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PGAM 201 Professional Golf Management Program: Level 1 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PGAM 212 PGM Professional Development: Second Year 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PGAM 295 Professional Golf Management Extended Internship 0</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PGAM 301 Professional Golf Management Program: Level 2 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PGAM 312 PGM Professional Development: Third Year 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PGAM 401 Professional Golf Management Program: Level 3 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PGAM 489 Professional Golf Management Integration <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 10)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Free Electives 20-22</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total Credit Hours 120</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>GPA Requirements (related to the major)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students are expected to maintain a 2.5 grade point average, which is required for the College of Business Administration courses.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Internship Credit Rules (related to the major)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Complete 16 months of internships in at least three different settings, the first of which must be at a golf course. </p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>OTHER: </p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Participate in Playing Ability Test once in first year and twice each succeeding year until the PAT is passed.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Complete Level 3 of the PGA Golf Management program.</li>
			</ul>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
