<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Pre-Veterinary Medicine 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="pre-veterinary-medicine-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Pre-Veterinary Medicine</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR: </span>Pre-Veterinary Medicine (Non-degree seeking)</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Non-degree seeking only</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Laura Hardin</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Professor David Hardin,</span> School of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, 120C Vet Basic Sciences</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Head:</span> Professor Larry Berger, Department of Animal Science, C203 Animal Sciences</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Individuals wishing to enter the four-year professional curriculum leading to the degree, doctor of veterinary medicine (DVM), must first complete two or more years of pre-veterinary general education. Courses taken during pre-professional education must satisfy the entrance prerequisites for the college of veterinary medicine of the person’s choice. At the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, it usually requires a minimum of three years to complete the pre-professional requirements, but students must declare an acceptable degree program at the conclusion of their sophomore year. Certain options in the veterinary science and veterinary technology degree programs meet the pre-veterinary requirements of colleges of veterinary medicine. 8 The student should discuss special variations and other colleges of interest with their academic adviser at the earliest possible date.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Pre-Veterinary Program IS NOT a degree-granting program. </span>Completion of the pre-professional program alone in fulfilling the prerequisites for admission to a college or school of veterinary medicine does not result in the awarding of a degree from the University of Nebraska. Students are to select an appropriate field within which to work toward a college degree while concurrently working toward completion of pre-professional requirements. Students are encouraged to consider courses of study with a degree-granting program in veterinary science (biomedical science, microbiology options, or veterinary medicine options), veterinary technology, animal science, food science and technology, biochemistry or other fields compatible with the pre-professional program that leads to a bachelor of science degree. Students can also complete pre-veterinary prerequisites with a degree program in wildlife or environmental studies, leading to a bachelor of science degree. It is also possible to pursue these pre-veterinary requirements in degree-granting programs outside the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, such as the College of Arts and Sciences.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Students are expected to designate an acceptable degree program by the end of their sophomore year and to work with an adviser in that field. </span>Additional advisory support relating to pre-professional requirements and admission policies is provided by advisers within the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, University of Nebraska–Lincoln.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The program utilizes an “Advising Plus” model which involves faculty from the School of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences (Laura Hardin, Rodney Moxley, and Michael Carlson) and the Department of Animal Science (Dennis Brink and Thomas Burkey). Team advising will be utilized to expose students to all the opportunities in animal health and assist them in identifying the appropriate degree program.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students interested in veterinary medicine are encouraged to participate in the Pre-veterinary Club to learn about the exciting advancement and developments within the profession.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>It is not recommended that pre-veterinary students take any courses on a Pass/No Pass basis (unless this is the only grading option for a given course, e.g. VBMS 101) because courses taken Pass/No Pass may not be accepted for pre-professional prerequisites. Letter grades are required to evaluate credentials of applicants for veterinary college admission.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>See individual degree programs for specializations in those areas.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
