<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Pre-Forestry 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="pre-forestry-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Pre-Forestry</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR: </span>Pre-Forestry (Non-degree seeking)</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Non-degree seeking only</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> James Brandle</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator: Professor James R. Brandle,</span> School of Natural Resources, 407 Hardin Hall</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Forestry deals with the development and use of forests and related lands for a variety of uses– wood, water, wildlife, forage, recreation, and aesthetics. Multiple use is the foundation upon which management of our national forests is based; foresters today, through their forest management programs, are expected to provide a broad array of benefits to meet public demands. Students graduating from forestry programs find employment with federal, state, and local governments, and with private industry.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>CASNR offers a two-year pre-forestry program, but does not offer a four-year forestry degree. Students must transfer at the end of their freshman or sophomore year. Graduate training in forestry is offered by the School of Natural Resources.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The pre-forestry curriculum consists of 60-70 hours selected from the courses listed below. Course selection is based on a student’s background and career goals. A program of study will be developed by the student and the adviser that involves one or two years at the University of Nebraska before transferring to the University of Missouri or another accredited forestry school. If a student desires to enter the University of Nebraska and later transfer to a forestry school other than the University of Missouri, the student should obtain information about the school’s entrance requirements and curriculum as early as possible to avoid unnecessary loss of credit.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>An agreement with the University of Missouri allows Nebraska residents with the proper scholastic qualifications to enter that institution without paying out-of-state fees. Under this program a student may enter the University of Missouri directly from high school or transfer after one or two years at the University of Nebraska. Students interested in pursuing a pre-forestry program should select courses from the list below:</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>STAT 218 Introduction to Statistics 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 109 General Botany 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 112 Introduction to Zoology 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 General Chemistry I &amp; II 8</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>COMM 109 Fundamentals of Human Communication <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> COMM 209 Public Speaking 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGL 150 Writing: Rhetoric as Inquiry <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ENGL 151 Writing: Rhetoric as Argument <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ENGL 254 Writing &amp; Communities 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>GEOL 101 Physical Geology 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>JGEN 200 Technical Communication 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 104 Calculus for Managerial &amp; Social Sciences (3 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I (5 cr) 3-5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 101 Natural Resources Orientation 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 103/AGRI 103 Introduction to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 151/ASTR 151 Elements of Physics 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>SOIL 153 Introduction to Soil Science 4</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
