<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Pre-Law (EC).xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="pre-law-ec-">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="college-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Pre-Law (EC)</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override">COLLEGE:</span> Exploratory &amp; Pre-Professional Advising Center</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override">MAJOR:</span> Pre-Law (Explore Center)</p>
			<p class="content-box-m-p" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Law is the system we use to ensure order and justice for individuals and communities within our society. The broad nature of the legal field allows people to work with the law in a number of ways. Litigation (trial practice), representative practice, legal planning, education, and adjudication (becoming a judge) are traditional ways in which people work directly with the law. However, a legal education is useful and may be applied to a variety of other fields such as business, insurance, government, writing, resource management, or publishing.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The pre-law area of study is not a major at UNL but rather an advising category. Students interested in pursuing legal careers but have not yet decided on a major start their program of studies in the College of Arts and Sciences. Some students declare an academic major and earn a degree from UNL before entering professional school using their undergraduate academic program to develop the desired skill set for entry into law school and the legal profession. Students pursuing the Pre-Law category while earning degrees from any undergraduate college at UNL can receive guidance and advice from the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center by declaring their pre-law category with their college advising office. </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>High School Preparation</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students planning to pursue advanced work in the Pre-Law program should begin with a strong college preparatory course program in high school. In addition to meeting the University entrance requirements, it is recommended that pre-law students finish four years of the same foreign language in high school. </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Admission to Professional Programs</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The admission requirements for law professional programs vary and may change from year to year. Admission to the professional programs is competitive. Therefore, students need to be aware of academic recommendations, entrance exams, admission deadlines, research and volunteer opportunities, and other activities that enhance the application. In order to receive the timeliest information on requirements and preparation, students should visit or contact the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center, 33 Canfield, 402-472-3605, explorecenter@unl.edu. Information is also available on the website http://explorecenter.unl.edu/.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSION TO PRE-LAW</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Pre-law is not a major at UNL but rather an advising category. Students may follow a pre-law area of study while pursing any degree/major at UNL. Students who are unsure of which college/major they would like to pursue, may initially apply to the College of Arts and Sciences as a Pre-Law student. Please review the entrance requirements for the College of Arts and Sciences in the college’s section of the bulletin at http://bulletin.unl.edu/undergraduate/college/Arts+%26+Sciences.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADVISING FOR PRE-LAW</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students are advised in the pre-law area of study by professional academic advisers in the Explore Center. Advisers are available on an appointment and/or walk-in basis Monday through Friday in 33 Canfield Administration Building and can be reached at 402-472-3605 or explorecenter@unl.edu.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>COLLEGE REQUIREMENTS FOR PRE-LAW</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students should check the section of the bulletin outlining the requirements for their specific college of admittance. Those students undecided on a major who were admitted as Pre-Law students to the College of Arts and Sciences should review the college requirements outlined in the college’s section of the bulletin at http://bulletin.unl.edu/undergraduate/major/Pre-Health%2C+Pre-Law+and+Combined+Degree+Programs.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
