<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Psychology.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="psychology">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Psychology</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Psychology</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Celeste Spier</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Rick Bevins,</span> 238 Burnett Hall</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Vice Chairs: </span>David DiLillo and Eve Brank, 238 Burnett Hall</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors: </span>Belli, Bevins, Bornstein, Crockett, DiLillo, Garbin, Hansen, Hope, Leger, Molfese, Pope-Edwards, Spaulding, Tomkins, Wiener, Wilcox</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors: </span>Brank, Hoffman, Li, McChargue, Scalora, Schutte, Willis-Esqueda</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors: </span>Dodd, Gervais, Nelson, Stevens, Stoltenberg, Templin</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The undergraduate degree program in psychology is designed to provide students with educational experiences that are conducive to entering diverse careers ranging from academic psychology to such applied fields as counseling, business, and human services. Careful selection of courses from within the required groups and of supplementary courses in psychology and related fields will help students pursue their chosen career. Students who plan to major in psychology should meet with a departmental adviser as early as possible to plan a program of courses consistent with their interests and goals.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> Graduate programs leading to the doctor of philosophy degree are offered in the department. A detailed description of these courses appears in the <span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span>.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Specific Major Requirements</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. PSYC 181</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. PSYC 100</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. Two courses from each of the following groups:</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Group 1 (natural science): PSYC 233, PSYC 263, PSYC 265, PSYC 268, PSYC 270, PSYC 360, PSYC 373</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Group 2 (social science): PSYC 287, PSYC 288, PSYC 289, PSYC 380</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. PSYC 350</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>5. One course from each of the following groups:</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Group 1 (natural science): PSYC 456, PSYC 458, PSYC 460, PSYC 461, PSYC 463, PSYC 464, PSYC 465, PSYC 466, or BIOS 462</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Group 2 (social science): PSYC 462, PSYC 483, PSYC 485, PSYC 486, PSYC 489</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>6. Any two additional 400-level courses, excluding 496, 497, 499.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>7. Total credit hours required: 33</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Appropriate credit toward the psychology major requirements will be granted for psychology courses that are cross-listed in other departments but taken in another department. Credit toward the major will be granted even if the course is applied to another major or minor.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, selected majors will be required:</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. To submit copies of work produced in 200-, 300-, and 400-level courses to an assessment committee.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. In their last semester, to complete a written exit survey.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Results of participation in these assessment activities will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Up to 6 hours of Pass/No Pass credit may be taken in major requirements. Majors may take up to 6 hours Pass/No Pass in their minor(s), subject to the approval of the department(s) granting the minor(s). Students minoring in this department may take up to 6 hours Pass/No Pass.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Plan A (1 minor):</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. PSYC 181</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. 14 credit hours at the 200 level or above, 9 of which must be at the 300 level or above.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>Minimum: 18 credit hours</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Plan B (2 minors):</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. PSYC 181</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Plus three other courses at the 200 level or above.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>Minimum: 12 credit hours.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>No more than 3 hours from the following courses can count toward the minor: PSYC 296, PSYC 297, PSYC 299, PSYC 396, PSYC 496, PSYC 497, or PSYC 499.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
