<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Public Policy Analysis_Program Eval Cert.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="public-policy-analysis-program-eval-cert">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override">Public Policy Analysis &amp; Program Evaluation Certification</span></p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR: </span>Public Policy Analysis &amp; Program Evaluation Certification</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span> Certification Program Only</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 18</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Certification Program Only</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Kevin Smith</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator and Chief Adviser: Kevin Smith</span> (political science), 529 Oldfather Hall</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Core Faculty:</span> Blake, Krone, Michaels, Smith</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The program trains students to analyze systematically and coherently public policies, negotiate multiple and competing interests, and develop in-depth knowledge and application in substantive policy issues.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Principles and Requirements for the Public Policy Analysis Certificate</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>1. First Level </p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Covers the theories, processes, models, and methods of policy analysis. (6 cr) <span class="basic-text-ital">(both courses required)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 235 Public Policy: Concepts &amp; Processes (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 236 Public Policy Analysis: Methods &amp; Models (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Second Level </p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Examines the interpersonal, interagency and inter-group negotiation processes within which policy making occurs. (3 cr) <span class="basic-text-ital">(select one)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>COMM 211 Intercultural Communication (ETHN 211) (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>COMM 371 Communication in Negotiation &amp; Conflict Resolution (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>COMM 375 Theories of Persuasion (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 261 Conflict &amp; Conflict Resolution (ANTH 261/PSYC 261/SOCI 261) (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>3. Third Level </p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Applies models, methods, and the understanding of the policy process in substantive policy arenas. Students consult with the policy certificate coordinator to create a specialized plan of study for this level. (6 cr)</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>4. Fourth Level </p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Internship (3 cr) <span class="basic-text-ital">(capstone experience)</span> Students intern in a governmental or nonprofit agency relating to their area of interest or expertise. The internship generally occurs after completing or during the last semester of course work for the certificate. The political science undergraduate adviser as well as the policy certificate coordinator will help students find an appropriate policy-relevant internship. Academic requirements for the internship will be set by the certificate coordinator; however, the student can register for internship credit through political science or their major department.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>TOTAL: 18 cr</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style-2">
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
