<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Supply Chain Management.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="supply-chain-management">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Supply Chain Management</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Business Administration</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Supply Chain Management</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 hours for degree (33 hours for the major) </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.5 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> David Olson</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: David L. Olson</span></p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor:</span> Schniederjans</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Swenseth, Trimi</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Batur, Thornton</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The College of Business Administration at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln has established an undergraduate supply chain management major to educate students to become supply chain management professionals. Supply chain management (SCM) includes all the activities that must take place to get the right products and services into the right customer’s hands in the right quantity at the right time—from raw material extraction to consumer purchase.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The topics that SCM covers are diverse and include: procurement, order fulfillment, inventory management, supplier relationship management, product development and commercialization, returns management, physical distribution and shipping, warehousing, and outsourcing. With the depth and breadth of issues that it encompasses, industries that use SCM tools and approaches include: transportation, hospitals, government organizations, construction, processing, social services, electronics, facility design, manufacturing, and warehousing.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The course work for the supply chain management major (bachelor of science in business administration) consists of 120 credit hours, 33 of which are specific to the major. A focus of the course work is developing the three foundational areas of supply chain management: procurement, logistics, and operations. The program offers integration among these critical, value-adding components to enhance global competitiveness. Twenty-one hours of required course work is intended to provide students with an understanding of supply chain and logistic activities, development of strong quantitative and analytic skills, and introduction to tools to explore and improve a system. Students will complete an additional 12 hours of course work from directed electives in supporting fields such as accounting, finance, management information systems, leadership and/or marketing.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSION</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University Admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Core Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 33 hours of course work for the major.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All students, regardless of their major or interests in the College will take SCMS 331/MNGT 331 and SCMS 350/MNGT 350 as part of the Business Core Foundation requirements.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>NONE of these courses may be used to count toward the major.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>As noted in the College Degree Requirements section, all course work for the major must be taken for a grade.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Specific Major Requirements</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All course work for the major must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass).</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>The requirements for the major in addition to the general College requirements, consists of 21 hours of required major courses as listed:</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>SCMS 335 Supply Chain Decision Making Models</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 346/SCMS 346 Distribution Channels Management</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 431/SCMS 431 Enterprise Management Systems</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>SCMS 432 Supply Chain Planning &amp; Control Systems</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 444/SCMS 444 Supply Chain Logistics</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>SCMS 439 Global Sourcing &amp; Distribution</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>SCMS 474 Strategic Supply Chain Management</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>As well as 12 hours from the following directed electives:</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ACCT 308 Managerial Accounting</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 311 Leadership, Communications, &amp; Teams</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 345 Marketing Research</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>FINA 375 Financial Statement Analysis</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 425 Retail Management</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 437/SCMS 437 Supply Chain Risk Management</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 450 Strategic Database Marketing</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 454/SCMS 454 Information Systems Analysis &amp; Design</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 458/SCMS 458 Electronic Business</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 459/SCMS 459 Global Information Technology &amp; IS</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>SCMS 434 Lean Supply Chain Operations</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>SCMS 436 Project Management</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>SCMS 447 Supply Chain Technology</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>SCMS 452/MNGT 452 Database Organization &amp; Management</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>C- and D Grades</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Same as College Grade rules.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Same as College Pass/No Pass limits.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>GPA Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Same as College GPA requirements.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>OTHER</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Supply Chain Management Major </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All course work for the major must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass). Course work applied to the SCMS major cannot be used towards the completion of any other major or minor in the college.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
