<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Theatre-Directing &amp; Management 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="theatre-directing-management-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Theatre–Directing &amp; Management Emphasis</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Fine &amp; Performing Arts</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Theatre–Directing &amp; Management emphasis</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Harris Smith</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION </p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Paul Steger,</span> 215 Temple Building</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Grange, V. Smith, Steger</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Brown, Endacott, H. Smith, E. Stauffer, J. Stauffer, Teo-Gooding</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Borden, Kolbe, Shoemaker, Veneziano</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> Patterson</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This program provides comprehensive training and practical experience in directing, stage management and theatre management. It shares a common core with our performance program, offering fundamental training in acting, movement and voice for the first three semesters. Specialized classes follow in stage management, theatre management, and beginning and advanced directing. The culmination of the emphasis is four mentored projects in the student’s area of specialty or a combination of projects in several areas.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Degree at a Glance</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Requirements 30</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Languages: Classical and Modern 0-6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select from the list of “Approved Courses” found under “College Degree Requirements.”</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Library 110 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Theatre Core Requirements 39</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Directing and Management Emphasis Requirements 22</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives 22-28</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total Hours Required for Graduation 120</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSION</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Major/Department Admission</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students must apply for admission to the directing and management emphasis by completing an application form, supplying references, a resume, and examples of creative work. The acceptance process for both new and transfer students includes an interview and analysis of the overall academic and artistic record, and determination of the potential for success throughout the course of study.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS<span class="no-style-override"> </span></p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Core Requirements </p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>BA Core Requirements 39</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 112G Introduction to Theatre 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 114 Basic Acting Techniques I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 115 Basic Acting Techniques II 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 201 Technical Theatre Practice 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 202 Play Direction I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 204 Stage Makeup 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 223 Intermediate Acting I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 234 Scripts in Performance 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 253 Voice Production for the Stage 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 255 Stage Movement I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 335 History of Theatre I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 336 History of Theatre II 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 472 Theatre Perspectives 3</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Emphasis Requirements </p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Directing and Management Emphasis Requirements 22</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 300 Stage Management 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 301 Theatre Management 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 303 Stage Directing II 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 491 Advanced Projects in Directing, Stage Management &amp;/or <br />Theatre Management 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select three courses from:</span> 9</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 120 Principles of Design for Theatre &amp; Film (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 331 Introduction to Playwriting (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 410 Stage Lighting I (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 411 Stage Lighting II (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 412 Scene Design I (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 413 Scene Design II (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 418 Costume Design I (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 419 Costume Design II (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 450 Sound Design I (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>THEA 451 Sound Design II (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Minor Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Minors are allowed, but not required, with the theatre–directing and management emphasis.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS<span class="no-style-override"> </span></p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Prerequisite Requirements/Advancement in Major</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">An interview/evaluation will be scheduled with directing and management students after their third semester to determine whether they may continue in the program.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Students in the Theatre-Directing and Management emphasis are expected to maintain a 2.5 cumulative GPA throughout their career. Transcripts will be reviewed periodically to ensure satisfactory progress. Failure to maintain a 2.5 GPA may result in dismissal from the program.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">All courses taken for major requirements must be for letter grade, unless the course is only offered Pass/No Pass.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Minimum grade for all major requirements is C.</li>
			</ul>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
