<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Undeclared.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="undeclared">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="college-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Undeclared</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override">COLLEGE:</span> Exploratory &amp; Pre-Professional Advising Center</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override">MAJOR:</span> Undeclared</p>
			<p class="content-box-m-p" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center (Explore Center) provides an academic home for students who are still deciding upon a major or who are transitioning between majors. The Center does not award degrees and students will transfer to one of the eight undergraduate colleges when they have chosen an academic major and degree program. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Professional academic advisers in the Explore Center engage undecided students in major exploration, degree planning, and academic course work selection processes. By working closely with all of the UNL colleges, Explore Center advisers can help students design a general academic plan for one or more semesters that will allow them to progress toward a degree, while also exploring the variety of opportunities offered by the University. Students are encouraged to enroll in exploratory courses to help identify majors of interest. Additionally, all UNL students are required to complete the Achievement-Centered Education (ACE) requirements (for more information see http://ace.unl.edu).</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Undeclared students are encouraged to meet with a professional academic adviser in the Explore Center early in their first semester at UNL to discuss interest areas and to develop a plan for major exploration. Additional information concerning major exploration can be found on the Explore Center (http://explorecenter.unl.edu) and Career Services (www.unl.edu/careers/explore) websites.</p>
			<p class="content-box-m-p" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSION</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Program Admission </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students who have met the overall University admission requirements established by the Board of Regents are eligible for admission to the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center. The University admission requirements are outlined in detail on the Admissions site at http://admissions.unl.edu/.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Some UNL colleges have admission requirements in addition to the overall University admission requirements, and undecided students will be advised accordingly as they choose the majors they would like to pursue in their chosen colleges.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>To be considered for admission a transfer student, Nebraska resident or nonresident, must meet the overall University admission requirements established by the Board of Regents. The University admission requirements are outlined in detail on the Admissions site at http://admissions.unl.edu/.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies</p>
			<p class="end" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override-1">Because admission requirements establish the level of knowledge and skills which are needed for a student to succeed at UNL, students who are admitted with core course deficiencies in foreign language and geometry are expected to quickly remove them. Deficiencies must be removed before a student is eligible for graduation. </span></p>
			<p class="content-box-m-p" xml:lang='en-us'>ADVISING</p>
			<p class="end" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override-1">Students are assigned to a professional academic adviser in the Explore Center but may see any adviser in the center. Professional advisers in the Explore Center are available on an appointment and/or walk-in basis Monday through Friday in 33 Canfield Administration Building and can be reached at 402-472-3605 or explorecenter@unl.edu.</span></p>
			<p class="content-box-m-p" xml:lang='en-us'>ACADEMIC POLICIES</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Academic Load</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Undeclared students may enroll in a maximum of 18 credits in the fall and spring semesters. Students should refer to the Summer Schedule of Classes to determine the number of credits they may enroll in for each of the summer sessions. </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Pass/No Pass grading option was designed to enable students to take courses in areas of interest where they may feel they have had minimal preparation without adversely affecting their grade point average. Grades of P (pass) are interpreted as a grade of C or better. Neither grade P or N (no pass) contributes to the grade point average.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Undecided students should always seek assistance from their adviser in determining whether they should take a course on the Pass/No Pass option. Students may or may not be able to take courses Pass/No Pass depending on their intended majors.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Student Recognition</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students who complete at least 12 graded semester hours with a 3.60 GPA are eligible for the Undecided Students Honor Roll. </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Transfer Credit Rules</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'> Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center does not offer a degree. Thus advisers do not make transfer evaluation decisions. The determination of which transfer courses will meet graduation requirements in a specific college cannot be made until the student declares a specific major within one of the eight undergraduate degree-granting colleges. </p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
