<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Water Science 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="water-science-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Water Science</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Water Science</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Water Science</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER: </span>Steven Thomas</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Water Science Curriculum Committee:</span> Thomas, Chair (natural resources), Eisenhauer (biological systems engineering), Gates (geosciences), Lenters (natural resources), Lubben (agricultural economics), Thomas (natural resources)</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Adviser:</span> Steven Thomas, 403 Hardin Hall, 402-472-4030, sthomas5@unl.edu</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website: </span>http://snr.unl.edu/undergrad/programs/water.asp</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Facebook:</span> UNL Water Science Major</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The degree program in water science is designed to educate students in basic and applied sciences related to water resources. The goal is to educate individuals to gather and synthesize information from several disciplines, to formulate rational and broadly informed solutions to complex water related problems, and to effectively implement various water-based programs.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The curriculum is designed to meet the needs of students who intend to pursue careers in public and private organizations that conduct scientific water research or manage water resources, in private consulting companies that offer water research or management services, in agencies that form or implement water related policy, and in a broad range of nonprofit institutions that are interested in water resources. The program also provides students the opportunity to prepare for graduate study in water/hydrological sciences and water resources.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A minimum of 120 credit hours is required for the bachelor of science degree. Of these requirements, 43-48 credits are in an integrated water science curriculum designed to provide both breadth and depth in water resources. The water science degree program also requires 21 credit hours of science and mathematics. In addition, the student must select an option area consisting of approximately 18-26 credit hours. The option allows students to develop an individualized area of study. To complete the degree the student must take 24 credit hours of communication, humanities and social science courses.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Option areas include:</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Aquatic Ecology</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Hydrology </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Watershed Management</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Water Law and Policy</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Water Quality </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Application for UNL freshman scholarships automatically makes you eligible for SNR scholarships. Many scholarships are available, including the Viessman Scholarship, specifically for students in water science. For more information, visit http://snr.unl.edu.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Core Requirements</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Natural Resources Core 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 103/AGRI 103 Introduction to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Natural Sciences 13</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CASNR Approved Life Sciences<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 4)</span> 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab (4 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 109 General Chemistry I<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 4)</span> 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from the following:</span> 5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MSYM 109 &amp; MSYM 109L Physical Principles in Agriculture &amp; Life Sciences &amp; Lab (5 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 141 Elementary General Physics I (5 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 151 &amp; PHYS 153 Elements of Physics &amp; Lab (5 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 221 General Physics I &amp; Lab (5 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Mathematics and Statistics<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 3)</span> 8</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MATH 106B Calculus I for Biology &amp; Medicine 5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>STAT 218 Introduction to Statistics 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Communication 9</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Written Communication<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 1)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> ENGL 150, ENGL 151, ENGL 254; JGEN 120, JGEN 200, JGEN 300</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Oral Communication<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 2)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span>COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 286</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Communication and Interpersonal Skills Electives 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>JGEN 200 Technical Communication I <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> JGEN 300 Technical Communication II <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> NRES 260 Environmental Communications Skills</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Economics, Humanities and Social Sciences 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 211 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ECON 212 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> AECN 141<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 6)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Courses 12</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Select one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, and 9.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Specific Major Requirements</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Water Science Core Courses 30-34</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CIVE 353 Hydrology 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> 3-4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>GEOL 100 Introduction to Geology (3 cr) </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>GEOL 101 Physical Geology (4 cr) </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>GEOL 106 Environmental Geology (3 cr) </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 108 Earth’s Natural Resource Systems Lab (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> 3-4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>METR 200 Weather &amp; Climate (4 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 208 Applied Climate Sciences (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 408 Microclimate: The Biological Environment (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 220 &amp; NRES 222 Principles of Ecology &amp; Lab 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 312 Introduction to Geospatial Information Sciences <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> NRES 412 Introduction to Geographic Information Systems 3-4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 484 Water Resources Seminar 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>SOIL 153 Soil Resources 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 281 Introduction to Water Science 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 354 Soil Conservation &amp; Watershed Management 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ENVR 499A Environmental Studies Senior Thesis I (1 cr) &amp; ENVR 499B Environmental Studies Senior Thesis II (2 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ENVR 499H Honors: Environmental Studies Senior Thesis I &amp; II (3 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> WATS 498A &amp; WATS 498B Senior Project I &amp; II (2 cr ea) 3-4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> <span class="requirement-ital">The Senior Project fulfills the capstone requirement for water science students. The project is usually provided by private industry, government agencies, or nonprofit organizations. The senior thesis consists of research designed by the student along with the aid of faculty.</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Law, Policy and Management 6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select two of the following:</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>AECN 357 Natural Resource &amp; Environmental Law (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CRPL 470 Environmental Planning &amp; Policy (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 323 Natural Resources Policy (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 423 Integrated Resources Management (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 465 Resource &amp; Environmental Economics II (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 475 Water Quality Strategy (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Science and Technology 6-8</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select two of the following:</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 463 Fisheries Science (4 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 488 Groundwater Geology (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 361 Soils, Environment &amp; Water Quality (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 418 Chemistry of Natural Waters (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 452 Irrigation Systems Management (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 459 Limnology (4 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> WATS 468 Wetlands (4 cr)<span class="requirement-ital"> (or students may substitute NRES 498 River &amp; Stream Ecology)</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> <span class="requirement-ital">Courses taken in the Water Science Core do not count toward the Water Science Options.</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Major Requirements 42-48</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Core Requirements 48</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Core and Major Requirements Subtotal 90-96</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Option Requirements and Electives 18-26</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Free Electives 0-12</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total Credit Hours for Graduation 120</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students must consult with an adviser to select an option prior to the beginning of their junior year.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> Courses taken in the Water Science Options do not count toward the Water Science Core.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Aquatic Ecology Option</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This option is designed for students interested in lake, river, stream, or wetland ecology. Students are prepared for careers as research scientists or technicians with public agencies, private consulting firms, universities, and nonprofit organizations. Completion of this program provides excellent preparation for graduate study.</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Option Requirements 15-16</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 109 General Botany <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BIOS 112 &amp; BIOS 112L Introduction to Zoology &amp; Lab 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 457 Ecosystem Ecology (4 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> GEOL 424 Biogeochemical Cycles (3 cr) 3-4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 110 General Chemistry II 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 459 Limnology <span class="requirement-ital">(or students may substitute NRES 498 River &amp; Stream Ecology)</span> 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives 3-4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select one of the following electives:</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 473 Freshwater Algae (4 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 402 Aquatic Insects &amp; NRES 402L Identification of Aquatic Insects (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 470 Lake &amp; Reservoir Restoration (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 468 Wetlands (4 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 489 Ichthyology (4 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Aquatic Ecology Option Requirements 18-20</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Free Electives 4-12</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Hydrology Option </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This option trains students in the quantitative aspects of hydrologic sciences and is designed for students considering careers as a professional hydrologist, research scientist, or consultant (among others). Completion of this program provides excellent preparation for graduate study.</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Option Requirements 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 488 Groundwater Geology 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 212 &amp; PHYS 222 General Physics II &amp; Lab 5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 461 Soil Physics 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives 3-4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select one of the following electives:</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 110 General Chemistry II (4 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CIVE 456 Surface Water Hydrology (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>GEOL 472 Water in Geosciences (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III (4 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 221 Differential Equations (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 479 Hydroclimatology (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Hydrology Option Requirements 18-19</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Free Electives 5-12</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Water Law and Policy Option</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Under this option, a student gains expertise in water issues pertaining to water quality, quantity, allocation, and planning. Careers in this rapidly emerging field of water include lobbyists, community planners, public and tribal liaisons, and policy makers to name some. This option also prepares students for continued education in water law.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> Students in the Water Law and Policy Option should select AECN 357 under the Law Policy, and Management cluster of the Water Science core.</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Option Requirements 21</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AECN 265 Resource &amp; Environmental Economics I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AECN 456 Environmental Law 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AECN 457 Water Law 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CRPL 470 Environmental Planning &amp; Policy 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 235 Public Policy: Concepts &amp; Processes 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>SOCI 446 Environmental Sociology 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Water Law and Policy Option Requirements 21</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Free Electives 3-9</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Water Quality Option</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This option trains students with a desire to pursue a career examining water chemistry or quality within lakes, streams, rivers, and groundwater. This option is designed for students considering careers as water quality specialists, research scientists, laboratory and field technicians, water or environmental chemists, and many more.</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Option Requirements 16-17</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 110 General Chemistry II 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 251 Organic Chemistry I (3 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 221 Elementary Quantitative Analysis (4 cr) 3-4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>GEOL 418 Chemistry of Natural Waters 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 475 Water Quality Strategy 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>SOIL 361 Soils, Environment, &amp; Water Quality 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives 6-9</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select two of the following electives:</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 312 Microbiology (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CIVE 456 Surface Water Hydrology (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>GEOL 424 Biogeochemical Cycles (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>GEOL 472 Water in Geosciences (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 470 Lake &amp; Reservoir Restoration (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 488 Groundwater Geology (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II (4 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 212 General Physics II (4 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>STAT 318 Introduction to Statistics II (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 459 Limnology (or students may substitute NRES 498 River &amp; Stream Ecology) (4 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Water Quality Option Requirements 22-26</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Free Electives 0-8</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Watershed Management Option</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Watershed management is the management of the water, land, and biological resources to achieve a desired outcome of the water quality and water quantity. This option is designed for students considering careers as water resource managers working for local, state, and federal agencies and private consultants.</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Option Requirements 20</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AECN 357 Natural Resource &amp; Environmental Law 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 110 General Chemistry II 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 488 Groundwater Geology 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 361 Soils, Environment &amp; Water Quality 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 452 Irrigation Systems Management 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 459 Limnology <span class="requirement-ital">(or students may substitute NRES 498 River &amp; Stream Ecology)</span> 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Watershed Management Option Requirements 20</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Free Electives 4-10</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT </p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Required Courses 6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 281 Introduction to Water Science 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 354 Soil Conservation &amp; Watershed Management 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Advanced Courses 9-11</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Law, Policy and Management 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select at least one of the following:</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>AECN 357 Natural Resource &amp; Environmental Law (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CRPL 470 Environmental Planning &amp; Policy (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 423 Integrated Resources Management (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 465 Resource &amp; Environmental Economics II (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 475 Water Quality Strategy (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Science and Technology 6-8</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select at least two of the following:</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CIVE 353 Hydrology (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 463 Fisheries Science (4 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>NRES 488 Groundwater Geology (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 361 Soils, Environment &amp; Water Quality (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 408 Microclimate: The Biological Environment (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 418 Chemistry of Natural Waters (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 452 Irrigation Systems Management (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>WATS 459 Limnology (4 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> WATS 468 Wetlands (4 cr) <span class="requirement-ital">(or students may substitute NRES 498 River &amp; Stream Ecology)</span></p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
