<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Accounting</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="accounting">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="college-name">Accounting</p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Business Administration</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Accounting</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 hours (unless pursuing CPA or MPA) for the degree; 21 hours for the major </p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes–for CBA students only</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
				<p class="title-2">Accounting and Business Law</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Paul Shoemaker</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Brown, Chen, Shoemaker, Smith</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Allen, Crabtree, Lawrence, Ruchala</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Gao, Wan</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> Cosgrove</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The School of Accountancy is separately accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). The School’s mission is to foster intellectual curiosity, business insight, and professional expertise through high quality learning experiences, research, and service to students, the accounting profession, the citizens of Nebraska, and national and international communities. The educational objective for undergraduate accounting students is to create a learning environment where students attain a general education, business and accounting knowledge, interpersonal skills, communication skills, analytical skills, and critical thinking skills, directly or in conjunction with a well-designed business curriculum, as a foundation for career development.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The courses in accounting are designed to give business students a basic proficiency in accounting as an analytical tool for understanding business and public affairs and to develop essential theory and application for those specializing in the field. Students who complete the College of Business Administration program with a major in accounting and/or the master of professional accountancy degree (MPA), are well prepared to accept positions in industry, commerce, government service, or public accounting.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Students interested in the accounting discipline are <span class="basic-text-ital">strongly</span> encouraged to work closely with faculty members in the School to understand requirements and options available for those interested in careers as certified public accountants and options to pursue the five-year, Master of Professional Accountancy program. Requirements and processes vary with each of these options.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>
				<p class="title-1">Major/Department Admission</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Other Admission Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Enrollment in the Masters of Professional Accountancy program will require admission to the graduate program after obtaining senior standing and having completed the accounting courses normally required in the junior year (ACCT 308, ACCT 309, ACCT 313, ACCT 314, and BLAW 372). See the online Graduate Bulletin for admission requirements specific to the Business Interdepartmental Area.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1">Core Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text">In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 21 hours of course work for the major.</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">All students will complete ACCT 201 and ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting I &amp; II, 3 credit hours each as part of the Business Core Foundation (BCF). </li>
					<li class="bullet-2">ACCT 306 Survey of Accounting, for 4 credit hours may be an alternative option for actuarial science majors and for non-accounting majors transferring in with junior standing and excellent academic performance (by permission only).</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">All students interested in the bachelor of science degree with a major in accounting will take BLAW 372 Business Law I as part of the Business Core Intermediate requirements (instead of BLAW 371).</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Enrollment in many of the accounting courses requires certain grades in prerequisite courses as well as enrollment in a sequenced order. Refer to course descriptions for prerequisite requirements.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">As noted in the College Degree Requirements section, all course work for the major must be taken for a grade.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Accounting majors are exempt from taking the International Business Course requirement as part of their degree requirements.</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
				<p class="title-2">Bachelor of Science in Business Administration–Major: Accounting</p>
				<p class="title-3">Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M) </p>
				<p class="basic-text">Requirements for students interested in pursuing the bachelor of science degree with a major in accounting will complete 21 hours of course work for the Business Core Advanced-Major (BCA-M). </p>
				<p class="list">ACCT 308 Managerial Accounting</p>
				<p class="list">ACCT 309 Accounting Systems</p>
				<p class="list">ACCT 313 Intermediate Accounting I</p>
				<p class="list">ACCT 314 Intermediate Accounting II</p>
				<p class="list">ACCT 410 Auditing</p>
				<p class="list">ACCT 412 Federal Tax Accounting</p>
				<p class="list">ACCT Elective <span class="list-ital">(selected from)</span>:</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ACCT 404 Advanced Accounting</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ACCT 408 Advanced Managerial Accounting</p>
				<p class="title-2">Master of Professional Accountancy</p>
				<p class="basic-text">As part of the College Requirements and Major Core Requirements, students interested in pursuing the master of professional accountancy degree will complete 150 hours consisting of College Degree Requirements (including enrollment in BLAW 372 in place of BLAW 371) plus the following courses:</p>
				<p class="list">ACCT 308 Managerial Accounting</p>
				<p class="list">ACCT 309 Accounting Systems</p>
				<p class="list">ACCT 313 Intermediate Accounting I</p>
				<p class="list">ACCT 314 Intermediate Accounting II</p>
				<p class="list">Courses listed under the senior year</p>
				<p class="list">Courses listed under the masters’ year</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Enrollment in the Masters of Professional Accountancy program will require admission to the graduate program. The application should be completed the semester before graduation with the bachelor of science degree.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Students should work closely with the Graduate College, the Business Interdepartmental Area Graduate Committee (CBA 125) and the MPA director for admission and enrollment requirements. Application is required through the Graduate Admissions Management and Evaluation System (GAMES) which will include online submission of:</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">Graduate College Application</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT)</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Three letters of recommendation</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Two copies of official transcripts of all college course work completed </li>
					<li class="bullet-1">And completion of ACCT 308, ACCT 309, ACCT 313, ACCT 314 and BLAW 372</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text">During the senior year for the MPA program, students will take the following 9 hours of course work:</p>
				<p class="list">*ACCT 410/810 Auditing</p>
				<p class="list">*ACCT 412/812 Federal Tax Accounting</p>
				<p class="list">*ACCT Elective <span class="list-ital">(selected from)</span>:</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ACCT 404/804 Advanced Accounting</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ACCT 408/804 Advanced Managerial Accounting</p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent">Students must fill out a “hold for Graduate Credit” form to register for an 800-level class during their senior year.</p>
				<p class="asterisk"> * Six of the 9 hours of senior level accounting courses must be completed under the graduate number (800-level). Students should see the MPA adviser for details.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">During the master’s year of the MPA program, students are required to complete 30 hours of the following:</p>
				<p class="list">ACCT 803 Seminar in Financial Accounting</p>
				<p class="list">ACCT 831 Seminar in Auditing</p>
				<p class="list">ACCT 857 Controllership or ACCT 858 Seminar in Managerial Accounting</p>
				<p class="list">Accounting 900 level (or 800 level with no 400-level counterparts) - 6 hours </p>
				<p class="list">Additional graduate-level course work to meet minimum 150 hours - 15 hours</p>
				<p class="basic-text"> Additional requirements such as submission of a memorandum of courses form, should be completed during the fifth year of the program. The memorandum must be completed prior to completion of half of the MPA program.</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">Students should contact the MPA adviser for additional information. </li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Students’ registration forms must be signed by the MPA adviser each semester.</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>
				<p class="title-2">Certified Public Accountant (CPA)</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The CPA Exam is a national exam but licensing requirements are set by jurisdiction (the 50 states, District of Columbia, and U.S. territories) of residence. Nebraska requires 150 hours of education, successful completion of the CPA Exam and two years of qualifying work experience for licensure. Nebraska specifically requires 30 hours of accounting courses (beyond principles of accounting) be included in the 150 hour requirement. Candidates with a masters of professional accountancy (MPA) degree from UNL automatically meet the educational requirements. Otherwise, transcripts will be examined for compliance with educational requirements.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The Nebraska Board of Public Accountancy has a 60/90 provision for meeting the educational requirements to sit for the CPA Exam. Candidates who will complete their educational requirements (150 hours) within 60 days after taking the CPA Exam are eligible to take the exam, but they will not receive credit for the exam unless evidence satisfactory to the Board showing the completion of the educational requirements is received by the Board within 90 days following when the candidate took the exam.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Visit the Nebraska Board of Public Accountancy Web site for additional information (www.nbpa.ne.gov//).</p>
				<p class="title-2">(30 Semester Hours of Accounting Beyond Principles)</p>
				<p class="basic-text">University of Nebraska–Lincoln courses that will satisfy the accounting requirements. Thirty semester hours beyond Accounting Principles are required. A minimum of three hours must be taken in each of the areas below (except Other Accounting Courses).</p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Financial Accounting, Theory and Problems 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 313 Intermediate Accounting (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 314 Intermediate Accounting (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 404/804 Advanced Accounting (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 803 Seminar in Financial Accounting (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 805 Financial Accounting (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 888 Financial Statement Analysis (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Cost and Managerial Accounting 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 308 Managerial Accounting (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 408/808 Advanced Managerial Accounting (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 858 Seminar in Managerial Accounting (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Tax Preparation and Planning 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 412/812 Federal Tax Accounting (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 813 Advanced Federal Tax Accounting (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 815 Tax Research &amp; Planning (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 816 Special Topics in Federal Taxation (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 817 The Income Tax &amp; Management Decisions (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Auditing 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 410/810 Auditing (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 831 Seminar in Auditing (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Information Systems 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 309 Accounting Systems (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Governmental and Not-for-Profit 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 404/804 Advanced Accounting (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 814 Governmental &amp; Not-for-Profit Accounting (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Other Accounting Courses</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 399 Independent Study (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 399H Honors Independent Study (1-3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 499H Honors Thesis (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 802 Accounting Standards (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 807 Professional Responsibility &amp; Ethics in Accounting (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 840 Fraud Examination (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 857 Controllership (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 920 History &amp; Philosophy of Accounting Thought (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 990 Accountancy Internship (1-3 cr)</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> Most graduate-only courses—800-level with no 400 counterpart and 900-level courses—cannot be taken by undergraduate students. Some graduate courses are open to MPA students only. Consult with your faculty adviser or the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</p>
				<p class="title-2">(36 Semester Hours in General Business)</p>
				<p class="basic-text">University of Nebraska–Lincoln courses that will satisfy the General Business Requirements. At least 6 hours of Principles of Accounting are required and at least 3 hours from each of the other areas are required (except for Other Business Courses).</p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Macroeconomics 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ECON 311 Intermediate Macroeconomics (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Microeconomics 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ECON 210 Intro to Economics (5 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ECON 312 Intermediate Microeconomics (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Business Law </p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BLAW 371 Legal Environment (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BLAW 372 Business Law I (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Marketing 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">MRKT 341 Marketing (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">MRKT 341H Honors: Marketing (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Management 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">MNGT 350 Intro to Management Information Systems (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">MNGT 360 Managing Behavior in Organizations <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MNGT 360H Honors: Managing Behavior in Organizations (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Finance 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">FINA 361 Finance (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">FINA 361H Honors: Finance (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Business Communications 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">JGEN 220 Business Communication Strategies (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Business Ethics 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 807 Professional Responsibility &amp; Ethics in Accounting (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BLAW 371 Legal Environment (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BLAW 372 Business Law I (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Quantitative Applications in Business 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 3 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">MNGT 245 Elementary Quantitative Methods (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">MNGT 331 Operations &amp; Supply Chain Management (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Principles of Accounting 6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 6 hrs from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ACCT 201H Honors: Introductory Accounting I (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting II <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ACCT 202H Honors: Introductory Accounting II (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 306 Survey of Accounting (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Other Business Courses</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">MNGT 475 Business Policies &amp; Strategies (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="title-1">Electives</p>
				<p class="basic-text">As noted with the MPA and/or CPA, students <span class="basic-text-ital">may</span> choose to take elective course work required for the degree in course options suggested. </p>
				<p class="basic-text">See College Degree Requirements–Electives for additional options/restrictions regarding elective credit for the degree. </p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Enrollment in many of the accounting courses requires certain grades in prerequisite courses as well as enrollment in a sequenced order. Refer to course descriptions for prerequisite requirements.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Grade Rules </p>
				<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Grades of C or better are required in accounting courses which serve as prerequisites for upper-level accounting courses unless special permission is given by the director of the School of Accountancy.</p>
				<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
				<p class="basic-text">No accounting courses can be taken on a Pass/No Pass basis with the exception of ACCT 399.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Course Level Requirement</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Upper-level accounting course work (300/400-level) must be taken at UNL (i.e. may not transfer in 300/400-level accounting courses from another institution without prior permission).</p>
				<p class="basic-text">All 800- and 900-level courses are open to graduate students; some 800-level courses may be taken by undergraduate students with permission.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The accounting minor is available to College of Business Administration students only. </p>
				<p class="basic-text">Accounting course work used for this minor cannot be double counted toward business core foundation, intermediate or advanced-major degree requirements, for another major (except as noted for finance majors, nor any other business minor requirements. </p>
				<p class="basic-text">To fulfill the requirements for an accounting minor, students must complete 12 graded hours of accounting course work beyond accounting principles to include the following (to be taken for a grade [no Pass/No Pass]): </p>
				<p class="list-indent">ACCT 308 Managerial Accounting</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ACCT 309 Accounting Systems</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ACCT 313 Intermediate Accounting I</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ACCT 314 Intermediate Accounting II <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> ACCT 412 Federal Tax Accounting</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph">Finance majors may want to consider an accounting minor as course work for the finance major in the <span class="basic-text-bold">general finance option</span> and <span class="basic-text-bold">CFA®</span> – investments option allows for a double counting of ACCT 308, ACCT 313, and ACCT 314.</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
