<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Advertising</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="advertising">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name">Advertising</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Journalism &amp; Mass Communications</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Advertising</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Journalism</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 125</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Michael Goff</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION </p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> N. Mitchell, Shipley</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Brown, Hachtmann, Struthers, </p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Lauerman, Peon-Casanova, Willet</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Senior Lecturers:</span> Goff, James, Larsen</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturers:</span> R. B. Mitchell, Tidball, Wagler</p>				<p class="basic-text">The advertising major prepares students for careers in a wide variety of communication-related areas. Recent graduates have been placed in more than 20 states and several other countries in diverse advertising careers such as retail and corporate advertising and marketing, media sales, brand management, media planning, account management, research, public relations, media relations, special event planning, Internet communications, copywriting and layout and design.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The advertising faculty believes that a successful career must be built upon a solid foundation, an education that combines theory and practice. To achieve that end, the major offers courses in copywriting, layout, media planning, graphics, campaign development, research, management, and strategic communications. The curriculum is designed to emphasize strategy, planning and implementation in creative problem solving.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Much emphasis is placed on individual relationships between faculty and students, an interaction vital to a student’s creative development. A faculty adviser also helps each student tailor an academic plan to meet his or her interests and needs.</p>				<p class="basic-text">In advertising and strategic communications classes, students often work with actual clients who present real-life problems. This experience gives students a professional perspective on problem solving in many sectors including nonprofit, retail, small business and community organizations as well as large corporations. Students are encouraged to augment their academic experience with internships.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The faculty, with many professional contacts both locally and nationwide, actively help place students in jobs within the state and throughout the country. Students interested in majoring in advertising should contact the college office in 147 Andersen Hall.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">The major is 35 hours in advertising</p>				<p class="basic-text">The courses required for a 35-hour major in advertising are as follows:</p>				<p class="list">ADVT 251, ADVT 283, ADVT 333, ADVT 357, ADVT 460, ADVT 489; JOUR 101, JOUR 142, JOUR 486, JOUR 487; and 6 elective hours in advertising, broadcasting or journalism</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students may complete two majors in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications by completing all requirements for each major; however, the second major in the college will not take the place of a 24-hour concentration.</p>				<p class="title-1">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements </p>				<p class="basic-text">Three 12-hour concentrations or one 24-hour concentration and one 12-hour concentration. A specified minor may take the place of one 12-hour concentration. A major of 24 or more hours may take the place of a 24-hour concentration. Any of these options must be from outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications. The concentration requirement must be fulfilled with at least 36 hours from outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications. A 24-hour concentration could be satisfied by a major from another college. No grades below C will count toward a minor, or concentration. One of the three concentrations must be from a liberal arts department. See the degree audit for a list of the traditional liberal arts departments. Normally, concentrations are defined as a minimum of 12 hours taken from one department or a specified interdisciplinary program that does not have a designated minor. In each concentration, at least 6 hours must include courses numbered 200 or higher. The college additionally recognizes a 24-hour fine and performing arts concentration and a 12-hour business concentration.</p>				<p class="title-2">Fine and Performing Arts Concentration</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications may complete a 24-hour interdisciplinary concentration in courses from the College of Fine and Performing Arts. This concentration would include classes in: 1) art and art history; 2) music; 3) theater and film; and 4) dance.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students would select courses from the following:</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">A. One 3-hour course from each of the four areas 12</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">B. 3 hours of skills courses <span class="requirement-ital">(performance or lessons)</span> in one of the four areas 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">C. One 3-hour “capstone” course 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">D. Two 3-hour courses in one of the four areas 6</p>				<p class="title-2">Course options for students:</p>				<p class="title-3">I. Art &amp; Art History</p>				<p class="list">AHIS 101 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism I (3 cr)</p>				<p class="list">AHIS 102 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism II (3 cr)</p>				<p class="list">DRAW 101 Beginning Drawing (3 cr)</p>				<p class="list">CERM 131 Intro to Ceramics (3 cr)</p>				<p class="list">PHOT 161 Beginning Photography I (3 cr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">Art Studio 200-level courses: Prereq: Vis-Lit 140A,B &amp; 141A,B</p>				<p class="list-indent">Art History 200-level courses: Prereq: Sophomore standing</p>				<p class="list-indent">Art History 300-level courses: Prereq: AHIS 101 &amp; AHIS 102 </p>				<p class="title-3">II. Theatre &amp; Film</p>				<p class="list">THEA 112G Intro to Theatre (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list">THEA 114 Basic Acting Techniques I (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list">THEA 201 Technical Theatre Practice (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list">THEA 234 Scripts in Performance (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list">THEA 335 History of Theatre I (3 cr) Prereq: THEA 112G</p>				<p class="list">THEA 336 History of Theatre II (3 cr) Prereq: THEA 112G</p>				<p class="title-3">III. Music</p>				<p class="list"><span class="requirement-underline">Academic Courses</span></p>				<p class="list">MUNM 275 Music in Film (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 276G The Music Experience (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 287 The History of Rock Music (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 387 History of American Jazz (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 389 Arts of the 20th Century: 1945-Present (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list"><span class="requirement-underline">Ensembles</span></p>				<p class="list">MUNM 241 All-Collegiate Choir (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 243 Varsity Chorus (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 245 The University Singers (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 246 University Chorale (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 247 Symphony Orchestra (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 248A Wind Ensemble (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 248B Symphonic Band (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 248E Marching Band (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 249 Chamber Singers (1 cr)</p>				<p class="list">MUNM 251 Big Red Singers (1 cr)</p>				<p class="list">MUNM 253A Jazz Ensemble I (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 253B Jazz Ensemble II (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 253E Jazz Vocal Ensemble (1 cr) </p>				<p class="title-3">IV. Dance</p>				<p class="list">DANC 112 Modern Dance &amp; Ballet I (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list">DANC 159 Intro to the History of Dance (3 cr) </p>				<p class="title-2">Business Concentration</p>				<p class="title-3"><span class="basic-text-bold">OPTION 1 – 12 hours</span></p>				<p class="basic-text">Preparing students to understand more the business side of advertising, public relations and the various media. 12 hours total.</p>				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Required:</span> ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting </p>				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Required:</span> Business for Non-Business Majors course when developed</p>				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Also:</span> 6 hours <span class="list-ital">(9 hours if Business for Non-Business Majors course not available)</span> from any of the following:</p>				<p class="list-indent">MRKT 341 Marketing</p>				<p class="list-indent">MNGT 320 Principles of Management</p>				<p class="list-indent">FINA 260 Personal Finance</p>				<p class="list-indent">FINA 361 Finance </p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 365 Financial Institutions &amp; Markets</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 303 Intro to Money &amp; Banking</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 340 Intro to Urban-Regional Economics</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 416 Statistics for Decision-Making </p>				<p class="list-indent">MRKT 350 Marketing Information Systems</p>				<p class="list-indent">MRKT 425 Retail Management</p>				<p class="list-indent">MRKT <span class="list-ital">(any marketing class although above are particularly useful)</span></p>				<p class="list-indent">ENTR <span class="list-ital">(any entrepreneurship class including ENTR 121)</span></p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 225 Agribusiness &amp; Food Products Marketing</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 325 Marketing of Agricultural Commodities</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 471 Agricultural Marketing &amp; Product Development I</p>				<p class="title-3"><span class="faculty-list-bold">OPTION 2 – 15 hours</span></p>				<p class="basic-text">Preparing students to be business journalists or to do financial public relations. 15 hours total. </p>				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Required:</span> 3-hr capstone, JOUR 491 Business Reporting &amp; Writing <span class="list-ital">(or Business &amp; Economic Journalism)</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Required:</span> Business for Non-Business Majors course when developed</p>				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Also:</span> 9 hours <span class="list-ital">(12 hours if Business for Non-Business Majors course not available)</span> from at least two different departments:</p>				<p class="list-indent">*ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting</p>				<p class="list-indent">MNGT 320 Principles of Management</p>				<p class="list-indent">*ECON 365 Financial Institutions &amp; Markets</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 371 Elements of Public Finance</p>				<p class="list-indent">FINA 363 Investment Principles</p>				<p class="list-indent">FINA 260 Personal Finance</p>				<p class="list-indent">FINA 361 Finance</p>				<p class="list-indent">ENTR 121 Intro to Entrepreneurial Management</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 141 Intro to Economics of Agriculture</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 225 Agribusiness &amp; Food Products Marketing</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 265 Resources &amp; Environmental Economics</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 325 Marketing of Agricultural Commodities</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 346 World Food Economics</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 367 Agricultural Development in Developing Countries</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 376 Rural Community Economics</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 420 International Food &amp; Agricultural Trade</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 465 Resource &amp; Environmental Economics II</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 452 Agricultural Finance</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 471 Agricultural Marketing &amp; Product Development I</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 472 Agricultural Marketing &amp; Product Development II</p>				<p class="asterisk">* Highly recommended</p>				<p class="title-3">Secondary options for ECON: </p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 303 Intro to Money and Banking</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 340 Intro to Urban-Regional Economics</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 381 Intro to Labor Economics</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 403 Money &amp; the Financial System</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 404 Current Issues </p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 409 Applied Public Policy Analysis</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 416 Statistics for Decision-Making </p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 417 Econometrics</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 419 Topics in Applied Research</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 457 19th Century U.S. Economic History</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 458 20th Century U.S. Economic History</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 481 Economics of the Labor Market</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 482 Labor in the National Economy</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 485 Government &amp; Labor </p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>