<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Aerospace_Studies_Minor</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="aerospace-studies-minor">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name">Aerospace Studies Minor</p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Aerospace Studies (Minor only)</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> </p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes–Aerospace Studies</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Lt. Col. Scott Vilter</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION </p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Department of Aerospace Studies: Lt. Colonel Scott D. Vilter,</span> U.S. Air Force, Professor of Aerospace Studies, 209 Military and Naval Science Building</p>
				<p class="title-1">Air Force ROTC</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The preparation of future Air Force officers is provided through the Air Force ROTC (AFROTC) program. Enrollment is open to any student attending the University on a full-time basis. The curriculum provides the individual with a firm understanding of the concepts of aerospace power and the Air Force mission, organization and operations.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Enrollment in AFROTC is voluntary and accomplished through the fall and spring registration periods. Scholarships are available in many academic disciplines on a competitive basis. Approximately seventy percent of the students hold scholarships. Approximately one-fourth of the cadet corps consists of women. All Air Force career fields are open to women, including pilot positions.</p>
				<p class="title-1">General Program</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Both the two- and four-year Air Force ROTC programs are offered. The program consists of the General Military Course (GMC) during the freshman and sophomore years and the Professional Officer Course (POC) for the remaining two years of college. Those students who do not participate in the GMC will complete a six-week summer field training period for this requirement. Four-year cadets participate in a four-week training period during the summer between their sophomore and junior years.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT </p>
				<p class="title-1">Minor in Aerospace Studies (Joint Military Studies)</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The minor in aerospace studies is offered to any student completing the courses of study listed below. The minor not only prepares cadets for active duty service but provides any student the opportunity to study one of our country’s major instruments of power, the United States Military. In addition to studying Air Force organizations, missions and operations, the student will gain a broad perspective of the military in general by studying the history of all Department of Defense Services, thus emphasizing our country’s focus on Joint Military Operations.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Course Requirements (18 cr)</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">1. AERO 331, AERO 332, AERO 441, AERO 442 (total 12 cr)</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">2. 3 cr from the following: MNGT 320, MNGT 360, MNGT 361, MNGT 428, MNGT 464, MNGT 465, or MNGT 466</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">3. 3 cr from the following: HIST 303, HIST 304; GEOG 272; POLS 160, POLS 260, POLS 360, POLS 363, POLS 462</p>
				<p class="title-1">Active Duty Obligation</p>
				<p class="basic-text">There is no active duty obligation for enrolling in any AFROTC courses, unless a student wishes to become an Active Duty Air Force Officer or accepts an Air Force Scholarship. Students who complete the Air Force ROTC program and receive a commission, incur a four-year active duty commitment. Flying officers serve additional commitments from the time they complete their training.</p>
				<p class="end">###</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
