<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Agricultural_Engineering</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="agricultural-engineering">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Agricultural Engineering</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Agricultural Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 132</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISERS:</span><span class="generated-style"> Michael Kocher, Roger Hoy, Dean Eisenhauer, Derrel Martin, Richard Stowell, George Meyer</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Department of Biological Systems Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Head: Ronald E. Yoder</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Dickey, Dvorak, Edwards, Eisenhauer, Hanna, Hoy, Jones, Koelsch, Martin, Meyer, Schinstock, Schulte, Shelton, Smith, Weller, Yang</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bashford, Franti, Irmak, Kocher, Kranz, Stowell, Subbiah, Woldt, Yonts</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Keshwani, Liska, Othman, Pannier, vanDonk</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">http://agen.unl.edu/</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Agricultural engineering (AGEN) is one of two engineering degree programs offered through the Department of Biological Systems Engineering. The program allows students to emphasize their engineering course work in one of three areas; machine design, test, or soil and water resources. Thus, some agricultural engineers are involved in the analysis and design of field machinery systems and machine components through study of the principles of mechanical design, joining techniques, hydraulics, controls, ergonomics, and safety. Others are evaluating machine or mechanical system functional performance based on study of test procedure standards, measurements, data acquisition, electronic communication and statistics, and practical experience gained at the Nebraska Tractor Test Laboratory. While another portion are analyzing and designing soil and water management-related infrastructure as aided through study of irrigation, drainage, erosion and runoff control techniques, crop tillage and cultivation practices and natural resources management. Job opportunities for graduates are available in industry, public agencies, consulting, and private practice.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Upon entering the workforce, AGEN graduates (whether they are involved in machine design, product and performance testing, soil and water resources, or other professional endeavors such as business or law) will be:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">applying their unique educational backgrounds in agricultural engineering by providing appropriate solutions to problems and adding value to the research, development, and design processes encountered in a variety of work environments;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">considering systems as a whole when solving problems, looking beyond components and subsystems individually;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">confidently using the necessary elements of mathematics, statistics, physical science, engineering, computer-based measurement and analysis tools and current literature in solving problems and providing design solutions;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">successfully integrating their technical knowledge with skills in communication and persuasion, leading and working effectively in teams, and understanding cultural diversity and social and political forces that impact engineering decisions, as well as having the capability of competing in an international atmosphere;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">responsibly addressing issues of health and safety, ethics, and environmental impacts of engineering decisions; and</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">continuing their personal growth, professional development and professional and community service through various opportunities provided by institutions, professional societies and other venues.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department of Biological Systems Engineering is located in L. W. Chase Hall on East Campus. AGEN students participate in classes and laboratories on both the East and City Campuses. Courses in machine design, plant and animal environment, irrigation, soil conservation, food and bioproduct processing, electronics, soil and water engineering, structural design, natural resources, agronomy, and animal science are offered on the East Campus. Basic courses in math, chemistry, physics, engineering, computers, and electives in mechanical, civil, electrical, industrial, and chemical engineering are taken on the City Campus. Convenient bus transportation is available between campuses.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students benefit from small classes and personal acquaintances with faculty. In consultation with their adviser, students select electives that permit specialization in an emphasis area applicable to their career aspirations. Many students work part-time on departmental research projects, gaining valuable experience for later employment. Students also benefit from summer jobs, internships and co-op programs. These opportunities give students practical experience to learn about careers in engineering. Students also gain valuable experience through participation in professional organizations such as the American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers, the Soil and Water Resources Club, the Nebraska Society of Professional Engineers and the Society for Women Engineers.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">First Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGEN 100 Intro to Biological Systems Engineering &amp; Agricultural Engineering 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 10 Freshman Engineering Seminar 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Agricultural or Biological Sciences Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose from AGRO 131 or AGRO 153, or BIOS 101, BIOS 102, or BIOS 103.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Second Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGEN 112 Engineering in Agricultural &amp; Biological Systems 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 130 Intro to CAD 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Third Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGEN 225 Engineering Properties of Biological Materials 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 223 Engineering Statics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fourth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 373 Engineering Dynamics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 206 Engineering Economy I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 200 Engineering Thermodynamics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Computer Programming Elective 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose from CSCE 150E, CSCE 155, CSCE 251, CSCE 251K, CSCE 252A, or MIST 250.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Oral Communication Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose from ALEC 102; COMM 209, COMM 210, COMM 283, or COMM 286; FREN 304; GERM 303; JAPN 202; JGEN 300 or RUSS 304.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fifth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 310 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> MECH 310 Fluid Mechanics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 211 Elements of Electrical Engineering I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 325 Mechanics of Elastic Bodies 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Engineering or Science Emphasis Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Interpersonal Relations Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose from a list of 40+ courses available from adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Sixth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGEN 325 Power Systems Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGEN 344 Biological &amp; Environmental Transport Processes 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 321 Engineering Statistics &amp; Data Analysis </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> MATH 380 Statistics &amp; Applications 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Engineering Emphasis Electives 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Seventh Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGEN 424 Machine Design in Agricultural Engineering 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGEN 443 Design of Light-Frame Structures </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> AGEN 441 Animal Waste Management 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGEN 453 Irrigation &amp; Drainage Systems Engineering 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGEN 460 Instrumentation &amp; Controls 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGEN 470 Design I in Agricultural &amp; Biological Systems Engineering 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Eighth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGEN 480 Design II in Agricultural &amp; Biological Systems Engineering 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 400 Professional Ethics &amp; Social Responsibilities 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Electives 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Engineering Emphasis Electives 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total Credit Hours Required 132</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">An emphasis area requires a student to take 15 hours of engineering and science-based courses. A minimum of 12 hours must be selected from courses offered by the College of Engineering. Soil and Water Resources emphasis requires AGEN 303, AGEN 350, BSEN 455 or 458, Machine Design emphasis requires AGEN 303, MATH 314, MECH 342 and MECH 350, and Test emphasis requires AGEN 303, AGEN 431 and MSYM 433 as emphasis area courses.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
