<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Architecture</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="architecture">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name">Architecture</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Architecture</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Architecture</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span> The Professional Program in Architecture consists of two components: the two-year Bachelor of Science in Design (BSD-Architecture) and the subsequent two-year Master of Architecture (MArch).</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 129 for BSD; 54 additional for the MArch</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISERs:</span> Leslie Brehm &amp; Stephanie Kuenning (pre-architecture); Assigned Faculty (architecture)</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Director:</span> Tom Laging, 232 Architecture Hall</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Duncan, Handa, Hoistad, Kuska, Laging, Scholz</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Day, Ertl, Hardy, Hinchman, Krug</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Ford, Hemsath, Hind, Rice</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors Emeritus:</span> Borner, Corkill, Gibbs, Guenter, Moore, Potter, Puderbaugh, Sawyers, Steward</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chief Advisers:</span> Pre-Architecture: Leslie Brehm (lbrehm2@unl.edu) and Stephanie Kuenning (skuenning2@unl.edu); Architecture: Assigned Faculty </p>				<p class="basic-text">The primary responsibility of the architectural profession is the design of meaningful environments for human occupation and use. Architects, therefore, must be able to understand the needs and desires of the people who will inhabit and use their creations and then effectively synthesize the complex structural, mechanical and constructional components that go into the design of a building. Clearly, they must possess artistic talent as well as technical knowledge.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Architecture Program seeks to increase students’ desire to learn and to develop a capacity for critical thinking and sound judgment while simultaneously developing their innate creative potential. Specifically, the curriculum provides the background and means for the student to:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Analyze and understand society’s needs and desires,</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Translate these into a physical form,</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Contribute creatively to the building construction industry,</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Search out new problems and contribute to environmental knowledge through research,</p>				<p class="numbered-list">5. Initiate and review changes in technology and society, and</p>				<p class="numbered-list">6. Participate in the community that makes decisions affecting the physical environment.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Architecture is a six-year course of study divided into three, two-year segments. Students choosing to study architecture first enter the College as majors in pre-architecture. After completing a two-year curriculum in pre-architecture, students apply for admission into the Architecture Program’s professional program. The Professional Program in Architecture consists of two components: the two-year <span class="basic-text-bold">bachelor of science in design </span>(BSD-Architecture) and the subsequent two-year <span class="basic-text-bold">master of architecture</span> (MArch).</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students are required to apply for admission into the MArch program after completion of the BSD degree.</p>				<p class="basic-text">In the United States, most state registration boards require a degree from an accredited professional degree program as a prerequisite for licensure. The National Architectural Accreditation Board (NAAB), which is the sole agency authorized to accredit US professional degree programs in architecture, recognizes three types of degrees: the bachelor of architecture, the master of architecture and the doctor of architecture. A program may be granted a 6-year, 3-year, or 2-year term of accreditation, depending on the extent of its conformance with established educational standards.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Masters degree programs may consist of a pre-professional undergraduate degree and a professional graduate degree, that, when earned sequentially, constitute an accredited professional education. However, the pre-professional degree is not, by itself, recognized as an accredited degree.</p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">The bachelor of science in design is a para-professional degree and a necessary component of the professional program which culminates with the master of architecture degree. The master of architecture degree is the first professional degree. </span>The professional master of architecture degree is fully accredited by the National Architectural Accreditation Board (NAAB).</p>				<p class="basic-text">In addition to the normal two-year professional program, <span class="basic-text-bold">applicants with degrees from other fields may be eligible to enter the three year master of architecture program with deficiencies.</span> These deficiencies are evaluated by the program director on an individual basis after admission resulting from a review of the applicant’s transcripts and other pertinent professionally-related materials by the Student Affairs Committee. Students in this three year program are required to complete 27 to 50 hours of selected undergraduate courses (a minimum of one additional year) prior to pursuing the professional program. Applicants with deficiencies exceeding 50 credit hours are not admitted.</p>				<p class="basic-text">For those who would like to pursue scholarship in architecture, the Architecture Program also offers a 36 credit hour, scholarly-nonprofessional <span class="basic-text-bold">master of science in architecture degree for students with a bachelors degree in architecture or a related discipline</span>. In addition, students can gain the <span class="basic-text-bold">doctor of education in administration, curriculum and instruction in architectural education or doctor of philosophy</span> degree in a doctoral area of specialization, entitled Architecture Education, which is jointly sponsored by the College of Architecture and College of Education and Human Sciences. The program is designed for students interested in going beyond the professional degree in architecture to become architectural educators. The major purpose of the program is to provide academic preparation and professional development for those individuals who will serve as: a) faculty members in programs of architecture in public and private post-secondary educational institutions; and as b) administrative leaders of architecture programs in higher education.</p>				<p class="title-1">The Master of Architecture Professional Program</p>				<p class="title-2">General</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Professional Program in Architecture is a six-year course of study that includes a two-year pre-professional segment, a two-year core segment culminating in the award of the bachelor of science in design (BSD) and culminates in the final two-year exploratory segment which results in the receipt of the professional master of architecture degree (MArch).</p>				<p class="basic-text">Although the bachelor of science in design degree is an integral part of the four-year Professional Program in Architecture, it should be clearly understood that the undergraduate BSD is not a professional degree and is not accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board. Most state registration boards will not acknowledge any degree unless accompanied by an accredited professional degree. </p>				<p class="basic-text">The accredited, first professional degree awarded by the College of Architecture is the <span class="basic-text-bold">master of architecture</span> degree which is awarded at the successful conclusion of the Professional Program in Architecture. This is the only accredited professional architecture program in the state of Nebraska.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Upon successful completion of the two-year Pre-Architecture Program and admission to the four-year Professional Program in Architecture, students may enroll in the curriculum that leads to the BSD degree and the MArch degree.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Professional Program in Architecture is structured to develop highly competent professional architects. Each applicant, depending on previous academic training, professional practice, and specific interest, will work with their adviser in establishing a specific program of study suited to his or her abilities and career objectives.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>				<p class="title-1">Admission to the 4-Year Master of Architecture Program</p>				<p class="basic-text">After completion of the first two years of pre-architecture studies, either within the College of Architecture or at another institution, students may apply for admission to the Architecture Program.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Pre-architecture majors should apply for admission to the Professional Program in Architecture. Successful applicants will have their major changed from pre-architecture to BSD-Architecture option.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Available teaching resources and space capacities limit enrollment to the third year of architectural studies; therefore enrollment limits are established each semester.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Required courses must be completed before advancing to the next year of study.</p>				<p class="title-2">Minimum Entrance Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">To be considered for admission to the Architecture Program, applicants must:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Be enrolled in the College of Architecture</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Be in good scholastic standing</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Have completed the 1st and 2nd year Pre-Architecture Program of study.</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-1">Other Admission Requirements</p>				<p class="title-2">Third Year Admission Process</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. An application for admission may be completed by filling out the online application. The Program receives applications once a year in early February.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Applicants must submit a portfolio conforming to the defined criteria for the program applied for by the date posted at the completion of the spring semester.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Any applicant who has previously applied for admission and has not been accepted or who fails to enroll in the Professional Program in Architecture after an acceptance must reapply in the regular manner. Students may apply for admission to the Architecture Program only three times.</p>				<p class="title-3">Evaluation</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Student Affairs Committee of the program will carefully evaluate the applications for admission. The committee considers three elements in their evaluation; cumulative grade point average, a weighted grade point average, and the portfolio of student work. The weighted grade point average gives additional value to the applicant’s achievement in the required ARCH prefix course or transfer equivalents in the pre-professional curriculum.</p>				<p class="title-3">Selection</p>				<p class="basic-text">Admission to the Architecture Program will be awarded to applicants who show the greatest professional potential and have demonstrated scholastic achievement. The Student Affairs Committee reserves the right to not fill all available spaces in the Professional Program in Architecture if it determines that the remaining applicants have not performed at an acceptable level.</p>				<p class="title-1">Admission to the 2-Year Master of Architecture Program</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students from both inside and outside the program must apply to gain admission to the 2-year MArch degree program. Applications are available in October from the department office and are reviewed once a year in February. The Graduate Record Examination is not required.</p>				<p class="basic-text">All applications for admission are subject to approval of the Student Affairs Committee. Fifth and sixth year enrollment shall be limited by the teaching resources and space capacities of the department. An enrollment quota is established prior to each admissions cycle.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the Professional Program are governed by the rules, procedures and policies established in the Architecture Program. These are published in the Student Guide or by official notification by the faculty.</p>				<p class="title-2">Minimum Entrance Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">To be considered for admission to the 5th and 6th year of the Professional Program in Architecture, applicants must:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Have a 4-year degree from an accredited architecture program</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Present a portfolio of design work</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Be in good scholastic standing</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Have a B average or its equivalent in past academic programs</li>				</ul>				<p class="basic-text">The Student Affairs Committee of the Architecture Program requires a minimum TOEFL score of 550 or 213 computer-based or Internet-based score of 79-80 for all international student applicants whose first language is not English.</p>				<p class="title-3">Evaluation</p>				<p class="basic-text">A portfolio of an applicant’s recent design work will be evaluated by the Student Affairs Committee of the Architecture Program and is considered to be a very important part of the application review process, along with the applicant’s educational profile, letters of recommendation, transcripts, and application form.</p>				<p class="title-3">Selection</p>				<p class="basic-text">The limited number of spaces available each semester will be awarded to applicants who have displayed the highest abilities in a combination of scholastic achievement, design capability, and professional potential.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Admissions Committee reserves the right to reject applicants who, in its opinion, have not reached an acceptable level of design proficiency.</p>				<p class="title-1">Admission to the 3-Year Master of Architecture Program</p>				<p class="title-2">Minimum Entrance Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">To be considered for admission to the 3-year MArch program, applicants must:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Have a four-year bachelor degree</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Have a B (3.0) cumulative grade point average in past academic programs</li>				</ul>				<p class="basic-text">The Student Affairs Committee requires a minimum TOEFL score of 550 or 213 computer-based or Internet-based score of 79-80 for all international student applicants whose first language is not English.</p>				<p class="title-3">Evaluation</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Student Affairs Committee evaluates the candidate’s past academic record, three letters of recommendation, a statement of educational goals and the information requested on the application form. A portfolio is not required for candidates applying for the three year masters degree program, however, providing evidence of past achievements and/or creative activity is helpful to the committee in its evaluation.</p>				<p class="title-3">Selection</p>				<p class="basic-text">The limited number of spaces available each semester will be awarded to applicants who have displayed the highest abilities in a combination of scholastic achievement and professional potential.</p>				<p class="title-3">Deficiencies</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Student Affairs Committee and/or the Program Chair reserve the right to require additional course work be done to correct perceived deficiencies in the candidates educational background.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Pre-Architecture Curriculum</p>				<p class="basic-text">Completion of the Pre-Architecture Program is required for admission to the Architecture Program (third year admission). The pre-architecture curriculum can be referenced through the current listing of courses available in room 232 in Architecture Hall or the College Web page.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Grade Rules </p>				<p class="title-2">Minimum Grades</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students must earn at least a C (2.0) in all courses with an ARCH, IDES, or LARC prefix to earn credit toward their degree. Students will be required to retake all core required courses with a grade of C- or below, but will not be required to repeat courses that were taken as electives.</p>				<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>				<p class="basic-text">None of the required classes offered in the professional program are offered Pass/No Pass, but a maximum of 12 Pass/No Pass credit hours of humanities, social sciences, or open electives may be taken from departments outside the College of Architecture.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Courses taken outside the Architecture or Interior Design Programs to fulfill the upper level outside elective requirement at the 800 level or 900 level, with or without a 400-level counterpart, in a minor, collateral, or supporting area of work, can be taken on a Pass/No Pass basis.</p>				<p class="title-2">GPA Requirements</p>				<p class="title-3">Pre-Professional Program, Architecture, Landscape Architecture and Interior Design</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the first year are required to maintain both a semester and cumulative grade point average at or above 2.0. The standard rises to a grade point average of 2.6 in the second year. Admission into the third year of both programs requires a cumulative grade point average of 2.6. The College places students who fail to meet these standards on academic probation.</p>				<p class="title-3">Third and Fourth Year, Architecture</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the third and fourth year of the BSD program are required to meet two parallel academic standards. First the student must maintain a semester grade point average of 2.6 to remain in good academic standing. The Program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation. Further, students whose GPA for the academic year is between 2.6 and 3.0 are required to submit their studio work for review by the Student Affairs Committee for determination of continuance in the program or repetition of the year’s studio sequence.</p>				<p class="title-3">Fifth and Sixth Year, Architecture</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the MArch program are required to maintain a semester grade point average of 3.0 to remain in good academic standing. The Program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation.</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>