<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Art</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="art">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name">Art</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Art</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Fine Arts</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 125</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes </p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Shelley Fuller</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Ed Forde,</span> 120 Richards Hall</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Bartels, Forde, Kendall, Kunc, Pinnell, </p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Cal, Dominguez, Fritz, Fuller, Ingraham, Neal, Souto, Williams</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Holz, Thompson</p>				<p class="basic-text">The program in the Department of Art and Art History enables students to attain proficiency in the practice of art and knowledge of the history of art in addition to a general college education. The department is keenly interested in both students who choose art as their profession and who want to devote themselves to a period of intensive education, and those who recognize the cultural advantages or who find in artistic endeavor a high degree of personal enjoyment and satisfaction.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The department offers facilities for instruction and exhibition in a variety of studios, shops, and laboratories. The Sheldon Museum of Art, adjacent to the department, is the setting for traveling exhibitions as well as the display of works of art selected from the Sheldon’s extensive permanent collection. The department also presents exhibitions in its own Eisentrager-Howard Gallery. Both serve as extensions of the studio and classroom learning experience.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Two undergraduate degrees are available to art majors. The student’s career goals will determine the appropriate option. The bachelor of arts degree (BA) is a liberal arts degree with about forty percent of the course work in the Art and Art History Department, providing a wider exposure to various academic disciplines. The bachelor of fine arts degree (BFA) is a professional degree, the usual preparation for professional careers or graduate study in studio art, including about seventy percent of the course work from the Art and Art History Department. </p>				<p class="title-2">Bachelor of Arts Degree at a Glance</p>				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">ACE Requirements 30</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Languages: Classical &amp; Modern 0-16</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">All courses must be selected from the list found under “Additional Requirements” below.</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Library 110 1</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Art Major Requirements 50</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Minors 18-24</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Electives 4-26</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours Required for Graduation 125</p>				<p class="title-2">Bachelor of Fine Arts Degree at a Glance</p>				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">ACE Requirements 30</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">All courses must be selected from the lists found under “ACE Courses” on page 383.</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Library 110 1 </p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Art Major Requirements 89</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Electives 5</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours Required for Graduation 125</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>				<p class="title-1">Major/Department Admission</p>				<p class="basic-text">Any student who meets college admission requirements may declare a major in art.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Bachelor of Arts Requirements</p>				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">BA Requirements 50</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Visual Literacy (ARTP 140A, ARTP 140B, ARTP 141A, ARTP 141B) 8</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ARTP 400 Capstone Art Experience 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Studio Electives <span class="requirement-ital">(including a minimum of 3 credits above 299)</span> 21</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">AHIS 101 &amp; AHIS 102 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism I &amp; II 6</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Art History electives <span class="requirement-ital">(including a minimum of 3 credits in courses numbered above 299)</span> 12</p>				<p class="title-2">Minor Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">BA students are required to complete one Plan A or two or more Plan B minors. Art history may only be used as a Plan B in conjunction with another minor outside of the department.</p>				<p class="title-1">Bachelor of Fine Arts Requirements</p>				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">BFA Requirements 89</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Visual Literacy (ARTP 140A, ARTP 140B, ARTP 141A, ARTP 141B) 8</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Required Drawing 6</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">DRAW 201 Intermediate Drawing 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">DRAW 202 Life Drawing 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Required Distribution 18</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CERM 231 Beginning Ceramics 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GRPH 221 Beginning Graphic Design 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">PANT 251 Beginning Painting I 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">PHOT 261Beginning Photography II 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">PRNT 241 Beginning Printmaking I 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">SCLP 211 Beginning Sculpture I 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Studio Electives <span class="requirement-ital">(emphasis, if desired)</span> 39</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ARTP 400 Capstone Art Experience 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">AHIS 101 &amp; AHIS 102 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism I &amp; II 6</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Art History electives <span class="requirement-ital">(including a minimum of 3 credits in courses numbered above 299)</span> 9</p>				<p class="title-2">Emphasis Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">BFA students may opt to focus their studio electives in one area for an unofficial emphasis. Available areas of emphasis include ceramics, drawing, graphic design, painting, photography, printmaking, and sculpture. Course recommendations are available from the department.</p>				<p class="title-2">Minor Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">BFA students are not allowed to declare a minor. </p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">BA Degree</p>				<p class="title-2">Grade Rules </p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">All courses taken for major requirements must be for letter grade, unless the course is only offered Pass/No Pass.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Minimum grade for all major requirements is C.</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-2">Course Level Requirement</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">A minimum of 3 credits of studio art and 3 credits of art history must be taken in courses numbered above 299.</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-2">Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules, Transfer Credit Rules</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">No more than 6 hours of independent study courses (ARTP 395, ARTP 495, ARTP 496, ARTP 499H; AHIS 390, AHIS 392, AHIS 395, AHIS 490, AHIS 492, AHIS 495, AHIS 499H) may count toward the major in the BA degree.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">At least 12 credit hours in studio art and 9 credit hours in art history of the required BA courses must be taken at UNL. Courses taken at other academic institutions may be substituted for the remaining required courses subject to evaluation by the department.</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-1">BFA Degree</p>				<p class="title-2">Grade Rules </p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">All courses taken for major requirements must be for letter grade, unless the course is only offered Pass/No Pass.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Minimum grade for all major requirements is C.</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-2">Course Level Requirement</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">A minimum of 3 credits of art history must be taken in courses numbered above 299.</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-2">Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules, Transfer Credit Rules</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">No more than 9 hours of independent study courses (ARTP 395, ARTP 495, ARTP 496, ARTP 499H; AHIS 390, AHIS 392, AHIS 395, AHIS 490, AHIS 492, AHIS 495, AHIS 499H) may count toward the major in the BFA degree.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">At least 36 credit hours in studio art and 9 credit hours in art history of the required BFA courses must be taken at UNL. Courses taken at other academic institutions may be substituted for the remaining required courses subject to evaluation by the department.</li>				</ul>				<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>				<p class="title-3">Plan A minor in Art – 20 credits</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Visual Literacy (ARTP 140A, ARTP 140B, ARTP 141A, ARTP 141B) 8</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Studio Electives 6</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">AHIS 101 &amp; AHIS 102 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism I &amp; II 6</p>				<p class="title-3">Plan B minor in Art – 12 credits</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Studio Electives 12</p>				<p class="header-paragraph">Up to 6 hours of Pass/No Pass may be taken in the Plan A minor or each of two Plan B minors.</p>				<p class="end">###</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>