<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Asian_Studies_Minor</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="asian-studies-minor">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name">Asian Studies Minor</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Asian Studies (Minor only)</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> </p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes–Asian Studies</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER: </span>Andrew Wedeman</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director and Chief Adviser: Andrew Wedeman,</span> 528 Oldfather Hall</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Faculty:</span> Amano (modern languages and literatures), Banks (art history), Bleed (anthropology), Coble (history), Fuess (economics), Harpending (modern languages and literatures), Komarovski (classics), Liu (modern languages and literatures), Newman (educational psychology), Rapkin (political science), Schmidt (health and human performance), Steele (modern languages and literatures), Su (modern languages and literatures), Wedeman (political science)</p>				<p class="basic-text">A minor in Asian studies complements a liberal arts education by providing knowledge about the cultures and other aspects of a major part of the world. A minor also provides the basic background for additional studies of Asia in graduate school. Courses that may apply to the minor are offered by a variety of departments (see the following list), but several classes are not scheduled each semester.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Foreign Study.</span> The University of Nebraska–Lincoln cooperates with Nanzan University in Nagoya, Japan, in sponsoring an academic exchange program that allows UNL students to pay University of Nebraska tuition, fees, and housing costs here and then earn resident credit while studying for a year in Japan. In China, UNL has exchange programs with Peking University, China’s premier university and located in the national capital; XI’an Jiaotong University, a leading school in northwestern China; and Chinese University of Hong Kong. Interested students should contact the chair for the Asian Studies Committee for more information and application procedures.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A.</span> A minimum of 18 hours selected from the courses listed below and representing a minimum of two departments.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan B.</span> A minimum of 12 hours selected from the courses listed below and representing a minimum of two departments.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Approval.</span> The designation of a specific minor must be approved and recorded by the chief adviser for the Asian Studies Committee. Courses designated with an asterisk (*), which include independent study and special topics, indicate ones that may apply to a minor provided they are approved by the chief adviser.</p>				<p class="title-2">Courses that apply to the minor:</p>				<p class="list">AHIS 398* Special Topics in Art History</p>				<p class="list">AHIS 490 Directed Individual Reading</p>				<p class="list">ANTH 366 Peoples &amp; Cultures of East Asia</p>				<p class="list">ANTH 396* Advanced Readings</p>				<p class="list">ANTH 438* Topics in Old World Prehistory</p>				<p class="list">ANTH 496* Special Readings in Anthropology</p>				<p class="list">ARCH 450 Survey of Asian Architecture</p>				<p class="list">ENGL 243B Literature of India</p>				<p class="list">ENGL 349* National Cinemas</p>				<p class="list">ENGL 497* Independent Directed Reading</p>				<p class="list">GEOG 375 Geography of Asia</p>				<p class="list">GEOG 398* Special Topics in Geography</p>				<p class="list">GEOG 399* Independent Study in Geography</p>				<p class="list">GEOG 498* Advanced Special Problems</p>				<p class="list">HIST 181 Intro to East Asian Civilization</p>				<p class="list">HIST 282 Modern East Asia</p>				<p class="list">HIST 298* Special Topics in History</p>				<p class="list">HIST 381 History of Premodern Japan</p>				<p class="list">HIST 382 History of Modern Japan</p>				<p class="list">HIST 383 History of Premodern China</p>				<p class="list">HIST 396* Special Problems</p>				<p class="list">HIST 397* Special Topics in History</p>				<p class="list">HIST 480/HIST 880 The Social &amp; Economic History of China Since the Late Ming Era</p>				<p class="list">JAPN 101/JAPN 102 Beginning Japanese I &amp; II</p>				<p class="list">JAPN 201 JAPN 202 Second-Year Japanese I &amp; II</p>				<p class="list">MUSC 398* Special Topics in Music</p>				<p class="list">NUTR 205 Asian Martial Culture</p>				<p class="list">POLS 274 Developmental Politics in East Asia</p>				<p class="list">POLS 374 Japanese Politics</p>				<p class="list">POLS 376 Chinese Politics</p>				<p class="list">POLS 398* Special Topics</p>				<p class="list">POLS 399* Individual Readings</p>				<p class="list">POLS 464 Political Economy of the Asia-Pacific</p>				<p class="end">###</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>