<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Athletic_Training</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="athletic-training">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name">Athletic Training</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEPARTMENT:</span> Nutrition &amp; Health Sciences</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span> Athletic Training </p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 </p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Vicki Fisher </p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>				<p class="basic-text">Athletic training is the art and science of treating athletic injuries. The Commission on Accreditation of Athletic Training Education (CAATE) develops and maintains guidelines for colleges and universities to provide an education for athletic training and verifies that those standards have been met. The University of Nebraska–Lincoln athletic training program is currently granted accreditation status by the CAATE. The underlying philosophy of this program is the same as with all other components of the University of Nebraska athletic medicine program. </p>				<p class="basic-text">The athletic training education program is dedicated to providing students with educational programming that is recognized as excellent. It is dedicated to providing students with opportunities to have clinical experiences with teams noted for excellence, in facilities noted for excellence. It is also expected that students will display excellence in academic and clinical settings, and will adhere to the highest standards as put forth in the National Athletic Trainers Association Code of Professional Ethics. The University of Nebraska athletic training education program is dedicated to the continual assessment of our program and our students in order to maintain our standards. </p>				<p class="basic-text">The athletic training education program is housed in the Department of Nutrition and Health Sciences. Completion of the entire program constitutes a major field of study. Students completing the course of study are eligible to sit for the National Athletic Trainers Association Board of Certification Examination. </p>				<p class="basic-text">Students are required to earn a B- or higher in ATHT 145 in order to continue in the program. All other ATHT courses must be a C+ or higher and must average at least 3.0 to remain in good standing in the program and graduate. The minimum grade requirements for other courses vary. Students are strongly encouraged to contact the advising center for a complete program description.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Admission to the athletic training education program is competitive. Included in athletic training education are six semesters of required clinical internship.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>				<p class="basic-text">Before a student is admitted to the athletic training education program, they must undergo a period of observation in the training rooms at the University of Nebraska. This period serves two purposes. First, it allows the student to make an informed decision about whether they wish to pursue athletic training as a career. Second, it allows the staff athletic trainers to observe the students work habits and social skills. The ability to work long and sometimes tedious hours and the ability to work well with people is absolutely necessary to be a successful athletic trainer.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Observation lasts for one year, and is tied to the completion of ATHT 145 and ATHT 146. During the first few weeks of the fall semester, the student will be assigned to a rotation between the various sports and training rooms at the University of Nebraska. The student will be asked to observe approximately five hours per week with the various athletic trainers at UNL. During these rotations, the student is expected to finish weekly assignments, which reflect the knowledge and abilities that are expected of an introductory student in athletic training. If a student does not complete the course of study or does not complete ATHT 145 and ATHT 146 with a grade of B- or better, they will be asked to repeat the observational period.</p>				<p class="basic-text">During the spring semester, the students interested in continuing the athletic training curriculum will apply to the director of athletic training for admittance to ATHT 247. Applications will be considered based on the following criteria:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Completion of ATHT 145 and ATHT 146 with a grade of B- or better.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">A cumulative grade point average of 2.5 or better.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Evaluations provided by the staff athletic trainers supervising the students during their observational experiences.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Completion of an application provided by the director of athletic training education, along with an interview with the admissions committee.</li>				</ul>				<p class="basic-text">There are a maximum number of students that may be admitted to the curriculum. Therefore, this application process is competitive. Candidates will be evaluated by the entire athletic training staff, and will be selected based on the work and academic criteria outlined above. </p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Major Core Requirements (78-79 hr)</p>				<p class="title-2">Professional Requirements </p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Athletic Training (35 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">A grade of C+ or higher and an overall GPA of 3.0 is required in all ATHT courses unless otherwise indicated.</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHT 145 Intro to Athletic Training <span class="requirement-ital">(grade of B- or higher is required)</span> (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHT 146 First Aid, Treatment, &amp; Management of Athletic Injuries <span class="requirement-ital">(grade of B- or higher is required) </span>(3 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHT 245 Organization &amp; Administration of Athletic Training (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHT 246 Prevention &amp; Care of Athletic Injuries (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHT 249 Therapeutic Modalities (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHT 345 Evaluation of Athletic Injuries (4 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHT 346 Rehabilitation &amp; Reconditioning (4 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHT 445 Advanced Studies in Athletic Training (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHT 446 Medical Aspects of Athletic Training (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHT 247 Clinical Education I (1 hr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHT 248 Clinical Education II (1 hr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHT 347 Clinical Education III (1 hr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHT 348 Clinical Education IV (1 hr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHT 447 Clinical Education V (1 hr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHT 448 Clinical Education VI (1 hr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Nutrition and Health Sciences (13 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for NUTR courses.</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">NUTR 100 Nutrition, Exercise &amp; Health <span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C+ or higher is required)</span> (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">NUTR 150 Foundations in Nutrition &amp; Health Promotion (1 hr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">NUTR 250 Human Nutrition &amp; Metabolism <span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C+ or higher is required)</span> (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">NUTR 384 Biomechanics of Human Movement <span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C+ or higher is required)</span> (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">NUTR 484 Physiology of Exercise <span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C+ or higher is required)</span> (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Supporting Courses (9 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHC 279 Coaching Effectiveness &amp; Psychological Components of Sports Performance <span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C+ or higher is required)</span> (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">CEHS 200 Families, Schools, &amp; Communities <span class="requirement-ital">(hours met in ACE)</span> (0 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">EDPS 330 Measurement &amp; Evaluation in Nutrition, Fitness &amp; Health Promotion <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> EDPS 459 Statistical Methods <span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C or higher is required) (hours met in ACE)</span> (0 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">PSYC 181 Intro to Psychology <span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C+ or higher is required)</span> (4 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 102 Trigonometry <span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C or higher is required)</span> (2 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Supporting Sciences (21-22 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BIOS 102 Cell Structure &amp; Function <span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C or higher is required) (hours met in ACE)</span> (0 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L Human Physiology &amp; Lab <span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C+ or higher is required)</span> (4 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 214 Human Anatomy <span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C+ or higher is required)</span> (5 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I (4 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II (4 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHYS 141 Elementary General Physics I <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> PHYS 151 Elements of Physics (4-5 hrs)</p>				<p class="header-paragraph">Grades of D-, D, D+, C- satisfy requirements of the programs in human sciences unless specified otherwise under the Programs and Departments section of the bulletin. Students who receive a grade of D-, D, D+, or C-, however, are encouraged to retake the course, particularly if it is in the major area.</p>				<p class="title-3">Grades Earned Outside UN System</p>				<p class="basic-text">Up to 9 hours of grades below C (C-, D+, D, D-) from other academic institutions can only be applied to general education requirements and elective classes.</p>				<p class="end">###</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>