<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Biological_Systems_Engineering</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="biological-systems-engineering">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name">Biological Systems Engineering</p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> College of Engineering </p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Biological Systems Engineering </p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Biological Systems Engineering</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 134</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISERS:</span> Dennis Schulte, David Jones, Curtis Weller, Dean Eisenhauer, Gregory Bashford, Angela Pannier, Jeyamkondan Subbiah, George Meyer</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
				<p class="title-3">Department of Biological Systems Engineering</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Head: Ronald E. Yoder</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Dickey, Dvorak, Edwards, Eisenhauer, Hanna, Hoy, Jones, Koelsch, Martin, Meyer, Schinstock, Schulte, Shelton, Smith, Weller, Yang</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Bashford, Franti, Irmak, Kocher, Kranz, Stowell, Subbiah, Woldt, Yonts</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Keshwani, Liska, Othman, Pannier, vanDonk</p>
				<p class="faculty-list">http://bsen.unl.edu/</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Biological systems engineering (BSEN) is one of two engineering degree programs offered through the Department of Biological Systems Engineering. The program allows students to emphasize their engineering course work in one of three areas; biomedical, food and bioproducts, or water and environment. A biological systems engineer could work on systems to micropropagate tissue culture, develop biomaterials and biofibers, design equipment and processes for producing foods and biofuels, or design devices for performing minimally invasive surgery. Still another could be responsible for developing biological sensors and imaging devices for detecting diseases and irregularities in humans, for measuring plant and animal stress, or for controlling the environment of greenhouses and animal facilities. Biological systems engineers could also be involved in resolving environmental issues associated with waste management, water quality and sustainable energy production. Job opportunities for graduates are available in industry, public agencies, consulting, and private practice whereas some head to graduate or professional school.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">After graduation, BSEN alumni will share the attribute of improving the organization for which they work, and the community and country in which they live. They will do this whether they are involved in biomedical engineering, water resources or environmental engineering, food or bioproducts engineering, or other professional endeavors such as business, law or medicine. In doing so, they will:</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">provide innovative and effective solutions to problems in a variety of work environments through the use of their unique background in biological systems engineering and the biological sciences;</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">look beyond components in isolation thereby providing holistic solutions to complex issues involving, for example, interactions at the ecosystem, organism, organ, cellular or subcellular level;</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">think logically using appropriate elements of mathematics, science, and engineering to develop, manage and interpret data, to correctly interpret new research findings and, to design new systems for the benefit of society;</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">successfully integrate technical knowledge with communication and interpersonal skills to lead and work effectively in teams, and to articulate the role of engineering decisions in the workplace, community and world;</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">responsibly addressing issues of health and safety, ethics, and environmental impacts of engineering decisions; and</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">continuing their personal growth, professional development and professional and community service through various opportunities provided by institutions, professional societies and other venues.</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text">The Department of Biological Systems Engineering is located in L. W. Chase Hall on East Campus. BSEN students participate in classes and laboratories on both the East and City Campuses. Courses in biomaterials, plant and animal environment, irrigation, soil conservation, food and bioproduct processing, electronics and imaging, and natural resources are offered on the East Campus. Basic courses in math, chemistry, physics, engineering sciences, computers, and electives in mechanical, civil, electrical, industrial, and chemical engineering are taken on the City Campus. Convenient bus transportation is available between campuses.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Students benefit from small classes and personal acquaintances with faculty. In consultation with their adviser, students select electives that permit specialization in an emphasis area applicable to their career aspirations. Many students work part-time on departmental research projects, gaining valuable experience for later employment. Students also benefit from summer jobs, internships and co-op programs. These opportunities give students practical experience to learn about careers in engineering. Students also gain valuable experience through participation in professional organizations such as the American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers, the Soil and Water Resources Club, the Biomedical Engineering Society, the Nebraska Society of Professional Engineers and the Society for Women Engineers.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
				<p class="requirement-hours">First Semester Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 100 Intro to Biological Systems Engineering &amp; Agricultural Engineering 1</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 113 Fundamental Chemistry I 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 10 Freshmen Engineering Seminar 0</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Electives 6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">TOTAL 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours">Second Semester Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 112 Engineering in Agricultural &amp; Biological Systems 2</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 130 Computer Aided Design 2</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 114 Fundamental Chemistry II 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 5</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">TOTAL 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours">Third Semester Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 102 Cell Structure &amp; Function 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 225 Engineering Properties of Biological Materials 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 261 &amp; CHEM 263 Organic Chemistry &amp; Lab 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGM 223 Engineering Statics 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">TOTAL 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours">Fourth Semester Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOC 321 &amp; BIOC 321L or BIOC 431 Biochemistry &amp; Lab 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 244 Thermodynamics of Living Systems 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGM 373 Engineering Dynamics 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Computer Programming Elective 1</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose from CSCE 150E, CSCE 155, CSCE 251, CSCE 251K, CSCE 252A, or MIST 250.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Oral Communication Elective 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose from ALEC 102; COMM 209, COMM 210, COMM 283, or COMM 286; FREN 304; GERM 303; JAPN 202; JGEN 300 or RUSS 304.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">TOTAL 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours">Fifth Semester Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 103 Organismic Biology 4 </p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 310 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MECH 310 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHME 332 Fluid Mechanics 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ELEC 211 Elements of Electrical Engineering I 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 321 Engineering Statistics &amp; Data Analysis <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MATH 380 Statistics &amp; Applications 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN Emphasis Elective 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">TOTAL 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours">Sixth Semester Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 344 Biological &amp; Environmental Transport Processes 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN Emphasis Elective 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Engineering or Science Emphasis Elective 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Interpersonal Relations Elective 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose from a list of 40+ courses available from adviser.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">TOTAL 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours">Seventh Semester Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 460 Instrumentation &amp; Controls 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 470 Design I in Agricultural &amp; Biological Systems Engineering 1</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 206 Engineering Economy I 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN Emphasis Elective 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Engineering or Science Emphasis Elective 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">TOTAL 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours">Eighth Semester Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 480 Design II in Agricultural &amp; Biological Systems Engineering 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 400 Professional Ethics &amp; Social Responsibilities 1</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Biological Science Elective 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">BIOS 203 is not acceptable; a minimum of two laboratory courses or two courses with laboratories is required within the 16 hours of biological sciences and biochemistry courses</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN Emphasis Elective 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Engineering Emphasis Elective 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">TOTAL 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total Credit Hours Required 134</span></p>
				<p class="title-1">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text">An emphasis area requires a student to take 21 hours of engineering and science-based courses. A minimum of 15 hours must be selected from courses offered by the College of Engineering. Within the 15 hours, a minimum of 12 hours must be BSEN courses or engineering courses crosslisted with BSEN. Of the BSEN or BSEN crosslisted courses, one must be a 300-level course of a primary emphasis area, one must be a 300-level course of a secondary emphasis area and one must be a 400-level course of a primary emphasis area. Water and Environment emphasis requires both BSEN 326 and BSEN 350, Food and Bioproducts emphasis requires BSEN 303, and Biomedical emphasis requires BSEN 317 as primary emphasis area courses.</p>
				<p class="title-2">BSEN Emphasis Courses</p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="requirement-underline">Food and Bioproducts</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BSEN 303 Principles of Process Engineering</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BSEN 446 Unit Operations of Biological Processing</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="requirement-underline">Biomedical</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BSEN 317 Intro to Biomedical Engineering</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BSEN 414 Medical Imaging Systems</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BSEN 416 Intro to Biomaterials</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="requirement-underline">Water and Environment</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BSEN 326 Intro to Environmental Engineering</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BSEN 350 Soil &amp; Water Resources Engineering</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BSEN 453 Irrigation &amp; Drainage Systems Engineering</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BSEN 455 Nonpoint Source Pollution Control Engineering</p>
				<p class="end">###</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
