<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Broadcasting</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="broadcasting">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name">Broadcasting</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Journalism &amp; Mass Communications</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Broadcasting</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Journalism</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 125</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes–only for meteorology majors and environmental studies majors with a meteorology emphasis</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Michael Goff</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION </p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Hull (emeritus), Lee, Mayeux (emeritus), Renaud, Walklin</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Creighton, McCoy, Spann (emeritus)</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor and General Manager, KRNU-FM Radio:</span> Alloway</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice:</span> Christensen</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College of Journalism and Mass Communications has traditionally offered majors in both broadcasting and news-editorial journalism. Because of the changes in the journalism industries served by our students and graduates, however, we are in the process of combining those majors into one journalism major. This major will offer courses leading to a wide variety of careers in print, broadcasting and online journalism. </p>				<p class="basic-text">The broadcasting major offers courses leading to a wide variety of careers in the telecommunications industry. Building on a solid base of instruction in radio, television, and online journalism, the major has broadened its curriculum in response to advancing technology and new electronic media. Broadcasting offers courses in news gathering and dissemination, sports reporting, videography, sales, management, programming and other specializations including the use of audio and video on the Internet and the World Wide Web. Courses are designed to develop both a comprehensive understanding of theoretical principles and professional skills. Most courses involve extensive practical laboratory work in addition to classroom lectures and discussions.</p>				<p class="basic-text">KRNU, a professionally managed FM radio station, is an integral part of the instructional program. With studios in Andersen Hall, KRNU operates year-round and serves an audience of potentially 250,000 persons in the Lincoln area, plus a global audience via the Internet. Student-produced programs aired on KRNU have won many awards in competition with other student groups as well as with commercial stations. Broadcasting students received a Bronze Oscar in the student documentary category for their 2003 production of “Cuba: An Illogical Temple.”</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students have also had success in the national Hearst competition, including the broadcast news national winner in 2006 and several students placing in the top five.</p>				<p class="basic-text">In addition, students may work and take classes in the studios of the Nebraska Educational Television Network, one of the premier ETV facilities in the nation.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students also produce television newscasts and entertainment programs, which are distributed throughout Lincoln via cable television. The broadcasting program operates two television studios in Andersen Hall.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The broadcasting faculty enjoys an excellent rapport with the industry, and its members are actively involved in professional media organizations, frequently serving in leadership positions. Students are encouraged to further their professional goals through participation in student organizations such as the National Broadcasting Society, Alpha Epsilon Rho, the Society of Professional Journalists, the Radio-Television News Directors Association and other broadcasting entities.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Broadcasting faculty assist students in acquiring internships and professional work experience prior to graduation. Last year more than 100 media-related internships and professional part-time jobs were held by broadcasting majors. Graduates are working for media organizations throughout the nation, often in positions of middle and upper management.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students also are involved with ABC News on Campus. The college has a bureau, staffed year-round with four or five students at a time, which provides articles, photographs and video packages to ABC News in New York. Student work has appeared on Good Morning America and World News Tonight, as well as several of ABC’s Web sites.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students wishing to major in broadcasting should contact the college office in 147 Andersen Hall.</p>				<p class="basic-text">For the 2010-2011 academic year, the term “journalism” replaces the term “news-editorial,” and “broadcasting” continues to refer to both the news and production tracks in broadcasting.</p>				<p class="basic-text">All courses previously shown with NEWS headings are now shown as JOUR; therefore, the familiar news-editorial major is identified as the journalism major.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">The broadcasting major is 35 hours with 15 of the hours selected to develop emphasis in either news or production.</p>				<p class="basic-text">All <span class="basic-text-bold">broadcasting majors</span> complete JOUR 101, JOUR 142, JOUR 162, JOUR 486, JOUR 487 and 6 hours of electives from advertising, broadcasting or journalism.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Those who pursue a <span class="basic-text-bold">news emphasis</span> also complete JOUR 202, JOUR 350 and BRDC 369, BRDC 370 and BRDC 372.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Those who pursue a <span class="basic-text-bold">production emphasis</span> additionally complete BRDC 227, BRDC 228, BRDC 359, BRDC 360 and BRDC 362.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph">Students may complete two majors in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications by completing all requirements for each major; however, the second major in the college will not take the place of a 24-hour concentration.</p>				<p class="title-1">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements </p>				<p class="basic-text">Three 12-hour concentrations or one 24-hour concentration and one 12-hour concentration. A specified minor may take the place of one 12-hour concentration. A major of 24 or more hours may take the place of a 24-hour concentration. Any of these options must be from outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications. The concentration requirement must be fulfilled with at least 36 hours from outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications. A 24-hour concentration could be satisfied by a major from another college. No grades below C will count toward a minor, or concentration. One of the three concentrations must be from a liberal arts department. See the degree audit for a list of the traditional liberal arts departments. Normally, concentrations are defined as a minimum of 12 hours taken from one department or a specified interdisciplinary program that does not have a designated minor. In each concentration, at least 6 hours must include courses numbered 200 or higher. The college additionally recognizes a 24-hour fine and performing arts concentration and a 12-hour business concentration.</p>				<p class="title-2">Fine and Performing Arts Concentration</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications may complete a 24-hour interdisciplinary concentration in courses from the College of Fine and Performing Arts. This concentration would include classes in: 1) art and art history; 2) music; 3) theater and film; and 4) dance.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students would select courses from the following:</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">A. One 3-hour course from each of the four areas 12</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">B. 3 hours of skills courses <span class="requirement-ital">(performance or lessons)</span> in one of the four areas 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">C. One 3-hour “capstone” course 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">D. Two 3-hour courses in one of the four areas 6</p>				<p class="title-2">Course options for students:</p>				<p class="title-3">I. Art &amp; Art History</p>				<p class="list">AHIS 101 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism I (3 cr)</p>				<p class="list">AHIS 102 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism II (3 cr)</p>				<p class="list">DRAW 101 Beginning Drawing (3 cr)</p>				<p class="list">CERM 131 Intro to Ceramics (3 cr)</p>				<p class="list">PHOT 161 Beginning Photography I (3 cr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">Art Studio 200-level courses: Prereq: Vis-Lit 140A,B &amp; 141A,B</p>				<p class="list-indent">Art History 200-level courses: Prereq: Sophomore standing</p>				<p class="list-indent">Art History 300-level courses: Prereq: AHIS 101 &amp; AHIS 102 </p>				<p class="title-3">II. Theatre &amp; Film</p>				<p class="list">THEA 112G Intro to Theatre (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list">THEA 114 Basic Acting Techniques I (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list">THEA 201 Technical Theatre Practice (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list">THEA 234 Scripts in Performance (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list">THEA 335 History of Theatre I (3 cr) Prereq: THEA 112G</p>				<p class="list">THEA 336 History of Theatre II (3 cr) Prereq: THEA 112G</p>				<p class="title-3">III. Music</p>				<p class="list"><span class="requirement-underline">Academic Courses</span></p>				<p class="list">MUNM 275 Music in Film (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 276G The Music Experience (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 287 The History of Rock Music (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 387 History of American Jazz (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 389 Arts of the 20th Century: 1945-Present (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list"><span class="requirement-underline">Ensembles</span></p>				<p class="list">MUNM 241 All-Collegiate Choir (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 243 Varsity Chorus (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 245 The University Singers (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 246 University Chorale (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 247 Symphony Orchestra (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 248A Wind Ensemble (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 248B Symphonic Band (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 248E Marching Band (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 249 Chamber Singers (1 cr)</p>				<p class="list">MUNM 251 Big Red Singers (1 cr)</p>				<p class="list">MUNM 253A Jazz Ensemble I (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 253B Jazz Ensemble II (1 cr) </p>				<p class="list">MUNM 253E Jazz Vocal Ensemble (1 cr) </p>				<p class="title-3">IV. Dance</p>				<p class="list">DANC 112 Modern Dance &amp; Ballet I (3 cr) </p>				<p class="list">DANC 159 Intro to the History of Dance (3 cr) </p>				<p class="title-2">Business Concentration</p>				<p class="title-3"><span class="basic-text-bold">OPTION 1 – 12 hours</span></p>				<p class="basic-text">Preparing students to understand more the business side of advertising, public relations and the various media. 12 hours total.</p>				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Required:</span> ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting </p>				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Required:</span> Business for Non-Business Majors course when developed</p>				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Also:</span> 6 hours <span class="list-ital">(9 hours if Business for Non-business Majors course not available)</span> from any of the following:</p>				<p class="list-indent">MRKT 341 Marketing</p>				<p class="list-indent">MNGT 320 Principles of Management</p>				<p class="list-indent">FINA 260 Personal Finance</p>				<p class="list-indent">FINA 361 Finance </p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 365 Financial Institutions &amp; Markets</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 303 Intro to Money &amp; Banking</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 340 Intro to Urban-Regional Economics</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 416 Statistics for Decision-Making </p>				<p class="list-indent">MRKT 350 Marketing Information Systems</p>				<p class="list-indent">MRKT 425 Retail Management</p>				<p class="list-indent">MRKT <span class="list-ital">(any marketing class although above are particularly useful)</span></p>				<p class="list-indent">ENTR <span class="list-ital">(any entrepreneurship class including ENTR 121)</span></p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 225 Agribusiness &amp; Food Products Marketing</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 325 Marketing of Agricultural Commodities</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 471 Agricultural Marketing &amp; Product Development I</p>				<p class="title-3"><span class="faculty-list-bold">OPTION 2 – 15 hours</span></p>				<p class="basic-text">Preparing students to be business journalists or to do financial public relations. 15 hours total. </p>				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Required:</span> 3-hr capstone, JOUR 491 Business Reporting &amp; Writing <span class="list-ital">(or Business &amp; Economic Journalism)</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Required:</span> Business for Non-Business Majors course when developed</p>				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Also:</span> 9 hours <span class="list-ital">(12 hours if Business for Non-Business Majors course not available)</span> from at least two different departments:</p>				<p class="list-indent">*ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting</p>				<p class="list-indent">MNGT 320 Principles of Management</p>				<p class="list-indent">*ECON 365 Financial Institutions &amp; Markets</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 371 Elements of Public Finance</p>				<p class="list-indent">FINA 363 Investment Principles</p>				<p class="list-indent">FINA 260 Personal Finance</p>				<p class="list-indent">FINA 361 Finance</p>				<p class="list-indent">ENTR 121 Intro to Entrepreneurial Management</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 141 Intro to Economics of Agriculture</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 225 Agribusiness &amp; Food Products Marketing</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 265 Resources &amp; Environmental Economics</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 325 Marketing of Agricultural Commodities</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 346 World Food Economics</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 367 Agricultural Development in Developing Countries</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 376 Rural Community Economics</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 420 International Food &amp; Agricultural Trade</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 465 Resource &amp; Environmental Economics II</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 452 Agricultural Finance</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 471 Agricultural Marketing &amp; Product Development I</p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 472 Agricultural Marketing &amp; Product Development II</p>				<p class="asterisk">* Highly recommended</p>				<p class="title-3">Secondary options for ECON: </p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 303 Intro to Money and Banking</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 340 Intro to Urban-Regional Economics</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 381 Intro to Labor Economics</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 403 Money &amp; the Financial System</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 404 Current Issues </p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 409 Applied Public Policy Analysis</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 416 Statistics for Decision-Making </p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 417 Econometrics</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 419 Topics in Applied Research</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 457 19th Century U.S. Economic History</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 458 20th Century U.S. Economic History</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 481 Economics of the Labor Market</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 482 Labor in the National Economy</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 485 Government &amp; Labor </p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>				<p class="basic-text">A broadcasting minor (18 hours) is available only for meteorology majors and environmental studies majors with a meteorology emphasis. These students complete the following required 12 hours:</p>				<p class="list">JOUR 162; BRDC 369, 370 and 372.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students also complete 6 elective hours chosen from JOUR 101, JOUR 202 or JOUR 350.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students completing the BRDC minor are not required to complete prerequisite courses shown in the descriptions of the courses above. Students from the College of Arts and Sciences will need to check with their home college to determine whether this minor meets Arts and Sciences’ requirements for a minor.</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>