<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Communication_Studies</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="communication-studies">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name">Communication Studies</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> College of Arts &amp; Sciences</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Communication Studies</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 125</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes–Communication Studies</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Karen Lee, Angela (Nunziata) Hosek</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: William Seiler,</span> 433 Oldfather</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director of Forensics:</span> Aaron Duncan</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors: </span>Braithwaite, Krone, R. Lee, Seiler</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor:</span> Kellas</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Lucas, Pfister, Soliz</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> K. Lee</p>				<p class="basic-text">Communication studies is a humanistic and scientific field of study, research, and application. Its focus is upon how, why, and with what effects people communicate through verbal and nonverbal messages. Just as political scientists are concerned with political behavior and economists with economic behavior, the student of communication studies is concerned with communicative behavior.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Communication studies calls for dynamic personal involvement. Students create and test their ideas, develop individual abilities, and gain competence in various communicative settings. They acquire knowledge and methods that apply to nearly every aspect of their private and public lives–in the classroom as well as outside.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students declaring a major in communication studies should obtain a copy of the <span class="basic-text-ital">Guide to Undergraduate Studies in Communication Studies</span> from the departmental office and consult with the undergraduate adviser in communication studies immediately upon declaring the major.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The bachelor of arts degree in communication studies is offered in the College of Arts and Sciences. Dual registration in the College of Arts and Sciences and in the College of Education and Human Sciences leading to a major in communication studies, speech and dramatic art, or language arts with teacher certification is also possible. For information on programs leading to degrees with teacher certification see the College of Education and Human Sciences section of this bulletin.</p>				<p class="title-2">University Debate and Forensics</p>				<p class="basic-text">The University of Nebraska–Lincoln offers a nationally recognized debate and forensics program of participation in campus and intercollegiate debate, public speaking, and interpretation events. The program gives students the opportunity to compete at the local, state, regional, and national level. No previous debate or speech experience is required. All students who are in good standing may take part in intercollegiate debate and forensics.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> Graduate programs leading to the master of arts and doctor of philosophy degrees are offered in the department. <span class="basic-text-ital">A master of arts specialization in marketing, communication studies, and advertising is also offered by the department.</span> A detailed description of these programs appears in the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">All prospective majors must consult and register with a departmental chief adviser. Majors are expected to meet regularly with their adviser. An approved program of study must be filed at the time students declare the major or within the first 12 hours of course work in the major. In order to graduate with a communication studies major, students must have an approved program of study. The minimum number of hours for a major in communication studies is 34. The 34-hour requirement must include the following:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Majors must complete one of the following: COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 212 or COMM 286.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Majors must complete both COMM 200 and COMM 201. These courses should be completed within the first twelve hours in communication studies of a student’s program.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Majors must complete COMM 488.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required to complete a program portfolio. The undergraduate adviser will provide each major with an instruction sheet outlining the required contents of the portfolio, deadlines, and procedures.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Results of participation in this assessment activity will in no way affect a student’s GPA, but could prevent or delay graduation if the program portfolio is not completed as required.</p>				<p class="title-1">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Public Relations.</span> An emphasis program with the cooperation of the College of Journalism and Mass Communications. Students may apply to receive an emphasis in public relations by completing specific requirements. Communication students must also minor in marketing. There is an application process and admittance to the emphasis is limited. See Communications Studies adviser for details.</p>				<p class="title-1">Minor Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">A communication studies major must have either an approved Plan A minor or two approved Plan B minors. An approved individualized program of studies of 24 hours can also be used to meet the minor requirement. A departmental adviser must approve the minor.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</p>				<p class="basic-text">COMM 200 and COMM 201 must be completed before a student can enroll in any 400-level course. </p>				<p class="title-1">Grade Rules </p>				<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>				<p class="basic-text">A grade of C or above is required for all courses in the major.</p>				<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>				<p class="basic-text">Availability of Pass/No Pass credit in communication studies courses is at the discretion of the course director and/or instructor of the course. Although the department discourages Pass/No Pass credit for majors, up to 6 hours of Pass/No Pass credit may be applied to the major requirements. Up to 6 hours Pass/No Pass credit is permitted toward the minor, subject to the approval of the department granting the major. Request forms are available in the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</p>				<p class="title-1">Course Level Requirement</p>				<p class="basic-text">A minimum of 19 hours must be taken in communication studies courses at or above the 300 level, excluding COMM 390 and COMM 490. Of the 19 hours, at least 7 must be at the 400 level.</p>				<p class="title-1">Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules</p>				<p class="basic-text">The department encourages qualified students to enroll in internship and independent study in order to supplement classroom experiences. However, internship and independent study are not a substitute for classroom experiences. No more than 3 hours of internship or independent study may count toward the 34-credit-hour requirement in the major. </p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A.</span> This minor consists of a minimum of 18 hours in communication studies courses with at least 9 hours at or above the 300 level. The 18-hour requirement must include the following:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Plan A minors must complete either COMM 200 or COMM 201.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Plan A minors must complete either COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 212, or COMM 286.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. A minimum of 9 hours must be taken in communication studies classes at or above the 300 level excluding COMM 390 and COMM 490.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Of the 9 hours, at least 3 must be at the 400 level. COMM 200 or COMM 201 must be completed before a student can enroll in any 400-level course. COMM 490 cannot be used to meet this requirement.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">5. The department encourages qualified students to engage in internship and independent study in order to supplement classroom experiences. However, neither an internship nor an independent study is a substitute for classroom experiences. No more than 3 hours of internship or independent study may count toward the 18-credit-hour minor requirement.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan B.</span> 12 hours of communication studies courses with at least 9 hours at or above the 200 level, excluding COMM 390 or COMM 490. A maximum of 3 hours of internship or independent study may apply to the 12-hour requirement.</p>				<p class="end">###</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>