<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Computer_Engineering_(CEEN)</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="computer-engineering-ceen-">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Computer Engineering (CEEN)</span></p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> College of Engineering </span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Computer Engineering</span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering</span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 133</span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Dr. Bing Chen</span></p>				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">www.ceen.unl.edu/ </span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The computer engineering program is administered by the department of Computer and Electronics Engineering (CEEN). </span></p>				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Mission</span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The mission of the Department of Computer and Electronics Engineering (CEEN) at the University of Nebraska is to develop and maintain programs of excellence in teaching and research which meet the educational needs of its constituents, which will support the state of Nebraska in its development as a leading center for high-technology computer/electronics/ telecommunications industry and which will support national needs for well-educated computer and electronics engineering professionals.</span></p>				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Program Educational Objectives</span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The department’s Program Educational Objectives are a statement of what its graduates are doing or are capable of doing three to five years after graduation. The students in the computer engineering program receive a strong foundation in engineering science and design that will enable them to pursue productive careers in not only the computer engineering field, but can also be used as the foundation for careers in other areas such as business, management, and medicine. Typical industries in which the computer engineering graduate would be employed could include those microprocessor/embedded system design, digital design, hardware/software integration, and computer architecture and parallel processing </span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Objectives for the computer engineering program are that our graduates will: </span></p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Be employed doing work utilizing the education and skills attained through their undergraduate engineering program. </span></li>					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Be able to function on teams with multidisciplinary aspects </span></li>					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Participate in lifelong learning </span></li>					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Exhibit competency in communication skills </span></li>					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Have an ethical approach to engineering practice. </span></li>				</ul>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">These program educational objectives were developed with input from the program’s educational objectives constituency consisting of employers (including CEEN Industry Advisory Board), graduates of the program, and faculty of the department.</span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The individual holding this degree will have advanced knowledge in his or her field of engineering interest and in addition will have a university educational background involving mathematics, the physical sciences, and the humanities and social sciences. The curriculum has a strong focus in telecommunications engineering. Completion of this program will enable the graduate to enter employment in positions involving telecommunications engineering design, analog circuit design, telecommunications network performance analysis, and technical management of telecommunications networks. The program also leads to the preparation for graduate work in electronics engineering or electrical engineering.</span></p>				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">General Requirements </span></p>				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Advisement </span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Upon entry into the curriculum, each student will be assigned a faculty academic adviser. It is required that the student meet with the adviser prior to each class registration period and that all courses to be applied toward the degree be selected with the advice and approval of the advisor. Students are expected to have their academic records reviewed and obtain approval from the department prior to application to the University registrar for award of the degree in order to insure that all curricular requirements will be satisfied by the time of intended graduation.</span></p>				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Curriculum </span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Because of the rapid developments in the fields of computer engineering and electronics engineering, the curricular requirements are continually reviewed and upgraded to reflect technological advances. Curricular sequence and course descriptions contained herein are intended to serve as general guidelines. Contact the department for information on any changes to the requirements that are currently in effect but not listed in this catalog. Currently enrolled students are expected to modify their programs to take advantage of such revisions. Students who do not maintain continuous progress toward the degree through enrollment in applicable course work will be considered as new students upon reentering the computer or electronics engineering curricular sequence and will be subject to the requirements of the curriculum current at the time of their reentry. Certain courses may not be valid as prerequisites or as credit toward the degree after two academic years; the student’s academic adviser should be consulted regarding applicability. </span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The department maintains a high standard of excellence in meeting its objective of providing the student with extensive experience in the fields of computer engineering and electronics engineering. The development of both hardware and software and the knowledge of the interrelationship of these areas is enhanced through the extensive use of laboratory equipment. The applicable University bulletins and College academic policies must be followed for the areas of humanities and social sciences to ensure that such enrollments satisfy the campus general education requirements. </span></p>				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Senior Thesis </span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The capstone Senior Thesis requirement provides a unique and challenging opportunity for the undergraduate student to demonstrate his/her ability to apply the knowledge gained in the course work sequence to the planning, design, execution, testing and reporting of a significant project in the applications of engineering principles. The initiative and responsibility expected of the student executing the Senior Thesis parallel the expectations of the employer of the program graduate. After faculty approval of the thesis topic, each student is assigned to a faculty senior thesis adviser who will supervise the execution of the work. </span></p>				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Electives </span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Computer engineering and electronic engineering courses which are described in the catalog but are not shown as requirements in the semester sequences are offered as the need arises to provide co-interest areas wherein the students may broaden their background in the applications of computer engineering or electronics engineering. In addition, appropriate specified technical electives will be selected to augment the student’s particular area of interest. The applicability of transfer course work with engineering content toward credit in the curriculum is determined on a case-by-case basis by the department. </span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The credit hours in the curriculum designated as free electives are those courses that the student may choose to enhance personal objectives in his/her academic plan. Free electives must be selected with the approval of his/her departmental adviser and may not duplicate the content of curricular requirements nor be of a remedial nature.</span></p>				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Special Interest Areas</span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Opportunities are provided for the development of areas of special interest through enrollment in the Individual Study in Computer and Electronics Engineering courses which are offered at the freshman through senior level for the student who may wish to develop a topic under the guidance of a department faculty member. Enrollment is by permission after the department chair has approved a written proposal. Special Topics in Computer and Electronics Engineering classes also are offered by the department as the need arises to cover topics needing emphasis as a result of the rapidly developing fields of computer engineering and electronics engineering. Academic advisers should be consulted regarding the particular topics to be covered and the necessary prerequisites for each offering of this course.</span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who expect to continue their education at the graduate level after the award of the baccalaureate degree should consult their adviser regarding course selections that would enhance that objective.</span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are encouraged to develop their professional and leadership potential through participation in student chapters of related professional organizations and in University extracurricular activities. Participation in the University Honors Program is encouraged for those who qualify.</span></p>				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements</span></p>				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics &amp; Science (32 hrs)</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 1950 Calculus I 5</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 1960 Calculus II 5</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 1970 Calculus III 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 2050 Linear Algebra 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 2350 Differential Equations 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 3800 Applied Engineering Probability &amp; Statistics 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 2110 Physics I 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 2120 Physics II 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 1154 Physics I Lab 1</span></p>				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Computer Science (12 hrs)</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIST 1400 Intro to Computer Programming 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCI 1620 Intro to Computer Science II 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCI 3320 Data Structures 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCI 4500 Operating Systems 3</span></p>				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Communication Skills (9 hrs)</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 1160 English Composition 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 3980 Technical Writing 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SPCH 1110 Speech 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Humanities–Social Sciences–Diversity (18 hrs total)</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Soc–Behavioral Sciences (min 8 hrs)</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Humanities–Fine Arts (min 8 hrs)</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 4690 Technology, Science &amp; Civics 3</span></p>				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Required Engineering Courses (45 hrs)</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 1030 CEEN Fundamentals 4 </span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 1060 Microprocessor Applications 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 2130 Electrical Circuits I 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 2184 Electrical Circuits Lab I 1</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 2220 Electronic Circuits I 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 2250 Seminar 1</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 3100 Digital Design &amp; Interfacing 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 3250 Communication Systems 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 3280 Applied Fields 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 3130 Switching Circuit Theory 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 4330 Microprocessor System Design 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 4360 Embedded Microcontroller Design 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 4960 Senior Thesis Proposal 1</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 4990 Senior Thesis 3</span></p>				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Technical Electives (11 hrs) </span></p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">At least 8 hours must be CEEN courses.</span></li>				</ul>				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Free Electives (6 hrs)</span></p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Cannot be lower than an entry level required course, remedial, or duplicate the content of another course.</span></li>				</ul>				<p class="end"><span class="generated-style">###</span></p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>