<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Computer_Engineering_(Lincoln)</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="computer-engineering-lincoln-">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Computer Engineering (Lincoln)</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Computer Engineering (Lincoln)</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 126</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Charles Riedesel</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Steve Goddard</span><span class="generated-style">, 256 Avery Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Deogun, Dwyer, Elbaum, Goddard, Jiang, Reichenbach, Revesz, Rothermel, Samal, Seth, Sincovec, Surkan (emeritus)</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Choueiry, Cohen, Costello (emeritus), Liu, Ramamurthy, Scott, Soh, Srisa-An, Variyam, Xu</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Detweiler, Lu, Sarma, Vuran</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Research Assistant Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Swanson</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Riedesel</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Senior Lecturer:</span><span class="generated-style"> Chandra</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturer:</span><span class="generated-style"> Suing</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Phone:</span><span class="generated-style"> (402) 472-2401</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">FAX:</span><span class="generated-style"> (402) 472-7767</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Web site: </span><span class="generated-style">http://cse.unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">email:</span><span class="generated-style"> info@cse.unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The UNL Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) Department offers Nebraska’s only comprehensive program of higher education, research, and service outreach in computer science and computer engineering.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The CSE Department offers a challenging baccalaureate degree program in computer engineering that prepares graduates for professional practice in commerce, industry, and government, and for post-graduate education to enter careers in research and academia.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The focus of the program is integrated hardware/software system design. Increasingly, diverse systems, products, and processes depend on computers for design, control, data acquisition, and other functions. The computer engineer is the one person with the range of expertise to have an integrated view of computer-based systems and to make global design decisions.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Consistent with this focus, the computer engineering baccalaureate program develops:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The ability to view the computer systems as an integrated continuum of technologies and to engage in integrated system-level design. Studies include mathematics, logic design, computer organization and architecture, operating systems, systems programming, and systems design</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The ability to work with professionals in related fields over the spectrum of system design. Studies include computer science, physical sciences, engineering principles, and digital electronics.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Skills to quickly adapt to new work environments, assimilate new information, and solve new problems. Studies include communication, teamwork, problem solving, and broad-based expertise.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The background and perspective for post-graduate education. Studies develop critical thinking, depth of knowledge, and a foundation for life-long learning.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">An understanding of the social, political, and environmental aspects of professional practice. Studies include ethics, humanities, and social sciences.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Insight into the world of practicing professionals, including the concepts of collaboration, mutual support, and representing the profession to government and society. Practice includes a continual and varied participation in professional organizations such as ACM and IEEE.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The CSE Department also offers a degree of bachelor of science in computer science through the College of Arts and Sciences. All students majoring in the CSE Department should see their advisers during their first semester to make sure they understand the differences in the requirements of the two programs. Majors should consult with their advisers each semester for registration advising.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 155 is the first course for students majoring or minoring in computer science or computer engineering. CSCE 150E is for students majoring in other science or engineering disciplines. CSCE 150A is for students seeking a general introductory course. CSCE 150M is for students interested in multimedia computing. CSCE 156 is for students with experience in object-oriented design and programming. CSCE 101 and CSCE 101L are for students seeking a broad introduction to computing with a brief instruction to computer programming.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Programs.</span><span class="generated-style"> The CSE Department offers several graduate degree programs: master of science in computer science, master of science in computer science with computer engineering specialization, master of science in computer science with bioinformatics specialization, doctor of philosophy in computer science, doctor of philosophy in computer engineering with computer engineering specialization, doctor of philosophy in computer science with bioinformatics specialization, joint doctor of philosophy in computer science and mathematics. See the Graduate Studies Bulletin for details.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Other Admission Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Computer Science Placement Policy</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The required Computer Science and Engineering Placement Exam (CSEPE) is used to assess students’ background in problem solving, computer programming, and relevant mathematics. Students who have not taken a recognized UNL or transfer prerequisite course with a grade of C or better must take the CSEPE.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The computer engineering degree requires 126 hours of course work. There is a set of required core courses in computer science and engineering (36-39 credit hours), electrical engineering (28 credit hours), mathematics (20 credit hours), and physics and chemistry (12 credit hours). Students select technical electives (9 credit hours) from the list below. At least 6 of these 9 credit hours must be from CSCE or RAIK courses. The department maintains a list of CSCE 496 Special Topics selections that may be substituted as technical electives. Students must complete the humanities and social science requirements of the college (12 hours), two technical communication courses, and the college’s freshmen and sophomore seminars.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Technical Electives:</span><span class="generated-style"> CSCE 322, CSCE 378, CSCE 410, CSCE 413, CSCE 421, CSCE 425, CSCE 432, CSCE 434, CSCE 435, CSCE 451, CSCE 455, CSCE 456, CSCE 457, CSCE 464, CSCE 470, CSCE 471, CSCE 472, CSCE 473, CSCE 474, CSCE 475, CSCE 476, CSCE 477, CSCE 478, CSCE 479; RAIK 301H, RAIK 302H, RAIK 383H, RAIK 401H, RAIK 402H; ELEC 306, ELEC 416, ELEC 417, ELEC 462, ELEC 463, ELEC 464, ELEC 465, ELEC 469, ELEC 470, ELEC 475, ELEC 479 </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Up to 3 hours of CSCE 491 (internship) or CSCE 399H (research) can be used as a technical elective. See your adviser for more information.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Example Schedule</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">First Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 155 Computer Science I * 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 10 Freshman Engineering Seminar 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Second Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 156 Computer Science II * 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 235 Intro to Discrete Structures * 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 251 Unix Programming Environment 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Third Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 230 Computer Organization * 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 230L Computer Organization Lab * 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 215 Electronics &amp; Circuits I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 235 Introductory Electrical Lab I 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fourth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 310 Data Structures &amp; Algorithms * 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 216 Electronics &amp; Circuits II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 236 Introductory Electrical Lab II 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 370 Digital Logic Design (CSCE 335) 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fifth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 351 Operating System Kernels 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 361 Software Engineering 1 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 304 Signals &amp; Systems I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 316 Electronics &amp; Circuits III 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Sixth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 462 Communication Networks 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 305 Probability Theory &amp; Intro to Random Processes 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 307 Electrical Engineering Lab I 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 361 Advanced Electronics &amp; Circuits 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 475 Digital Systems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 314 Applied Linear Algebra 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Seventh Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 340 Numerical Analysis I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 430 Computer Architecture 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 488 Computer Engineering Professional Development 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JGEN 300 Technical Communication II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 14</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Eighth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 489 Computer Engineering Senior Design Project 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Double majors in electrical engineering may elect to take only one of the senior design courses (CSCE 489 and ELEC 495). To substitute ELEC 495 for CSCE 489, students must first obtain permission from the CSE Department and the design project must be co-supervised by the CSCE 489 instructor.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Technical Electives #1, #2, and #3 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">* As part of the required core courses in computer science and engineering, students in the Raikes School take RAIK 183H, RAIK 184H, and RAIK 283H.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Credit Hours Required 126</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required in their senior year to complete a written exit survey.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">C- and D Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Applicants for formal admission to computer engineering must meet the usual college requirements plus a minimum grade rule on the following core courses (or their equivalents):</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Grades of C+ or higher in MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 208; PHYS 211, PHYS 212; ELEC 215, ELEC 235; CSCE 155, CSCE 156, CSCE 230, CSCE 230L, CSCE 235.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
