<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Construction_Management</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="construction-management">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name">Construction Management</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> College of Engineering </p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Construction Management</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Construction Management</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> </p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> </p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>				<p class="title-1">Construction Management–An Academic Unit of the Durham School</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Unit Director: Jonathan Shi</span></p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Berryman, Fischer, Harmon, Jensen, Stentz, Wentz</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span> Shen</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Coordinator:</span> Charles Berryman</p>				<p class="basic-text">Construction is the largest and most diversified industry in the country, accounting for approximately 10 percent of the gross national product. The key professional in this vast enterprise is the “constructor”, a term given to the leaders and managers in the construction industry, having the responsibility for planning, scheduling, and building the projects designed by architects and engineers. These highly specialized efforts are indispensable in meeting the country’s growing need for new structures and environmental control projects.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Construction firms vary in size from large corporations to small proprietorships and partnerships. These are often classified according to the kind of construction work they do: general contractors, heavy and highway contractors, specialty contractors including mechanical and electrical, and residential builders and developers. Many firms engage in more than one category of work. Some larger companies incorporate the architectural and engineering design functions as part of their activity as a design/build firm. Collectively, Constructors build our entire man-made environment–buildings for housing, commerce, industry, and government; transportation services including highways, railroads, waterways, and airports; municipal service facilities and utilities, such as power plants and energy distribution systems; military bases and space center complexes. Thus the construction management field is broad and challenging, requiring a unique educational background for its professional practitioners.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Educational standards and criteria for construction education are established by the American Council for Construction Education (ACCE) which is the accrediting agency for construction education programs at all levels. The program at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, having met these standards and criteria, is currently fully accredited by ACCE.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Although the range of construction activities appears wide and diverse, the general educational requirements for construction management are universal regardless of a particular firm’s area of specialization. Since construction is primarily a business enterprise, the graduate must have a sound background in business management and administration areas, as well as an understanding of the fundamentals of architecture and engineering as they relate to the project design itself as well as to the actual construction process in the field. Professional expertise lies in the fields of construction science, methods, and management. A working knowledge of structural design, mechanical and electrical systems, soil mass behavior, and construction equipment is also essential.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The construction management curriculum embraces a course of study in specifications, contractual agreements, labor relations, personnel management, materials, methods, and work analysis techniques. Technical and humanity electives provide for a well-rounded education that leads to a challenging career in the construction industry.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students interested in obtaining a degree in civil engineering and construction management are advised to enroll in civil engineering. Because some civil engineering courses require prerequisites beyond those required for similar construction management courses, students should obtain a civil engineering degree first. While in civil engineering, they will be advised by an adviser familiar with the construction management curriculum. After completing requirements for the civil engineering degree, the student will move to the construction management department to complete the requirements for the second degree in construction management.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">major requirements</p>				<p class="title-1">Requirements for the Degree (Lincoln campus)</p>				<p class="basic-text">Construction management students must pass all courses offered within the College of Engineering and all math and science courses with a grade of “C” or higher. Students must complete 28 semester hours or be classified as a sophomore before applying for admission to the construction management degree program. In addition, all seniors must take a program exit examination along with the American Institute of Constructors’ Level I examination before graduation.</p>				<p class="requirement-hours">First Semester Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 131 Intro to the Construction Industry 1</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGL 151 Writing: Rhetoric as Argument 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 10 Freshman Engineering Seminar 0</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">GEOL 101 Physical Geology 4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 13</span></p>				<p class="requirement-hours">Second Semester Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 112 Construction Communications 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JGEN 200 Technical Communications I 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">STAT 218 Intro to Statistics 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, and 9 elective courses.</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Science Elective with Lab 4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">CHEM 109 or CHEM 111 or CHEM 113; or PHYS 151 and PHYS 153. </p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>				<p class="requirement-hours">Third Semester Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 221 Geometric Control Systems 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 252 Construction Materials Lab 1</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 241 Construction Methods &amp; Equipment I 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 251 Construction Materials &amp; Specifications 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGM 220 Statics 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>				<p class="requirement-hours">Fourth Semester Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 242 Construction Equipment &amp; Methods II 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGM 324 Strength of Materials 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, and 9 elective courses.</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>				<p class="requirement-hours">Fifth Semester Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACCT 306 Survey of Accounting 4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ARCH 331 Architectural Structures I 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 305 Building Environmental Technical Systems I (ARCH 333) 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 378 Construction Estimating I 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MNGT 360 Managing Behavior in Organizations 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>				<p class="requirement-hours">Sixth Semester Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ARCH 332 Architectural Structures II 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 306 Physical Environmental Systems II 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 379 Construction Estimating II 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">FINA 361 Finance <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> IMSE 206 Engineering Economy I 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Technical Elective 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>				<p class="requirement-hours">Seventh Semester Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BLAW 371 Legal Environment 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 476 Project Budgets &amp; Controls 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 480 Productivity &amp; Human Factors in Construction 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 485 Construction Planning, Scheduling, &amp; Controls 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Technical Electives 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>				<p class="requirement-hours">Eighth Semester Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 420 Professional Practice &amp; Ethics 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 489 Senior Construction Project 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Construction Management Elective 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, and 9 elective courses.</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Technical Elective 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Credit Hours Required 121</p>				<p class="end">###</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>