<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Construction_Engineering</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="construction-engineering">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Construction Engineering</span></p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Engineering </span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Construction Engineering</span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Construction Engineering</span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 133</span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Durham School of Architectural Engineering and Construction</span></p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">School Director: Eddy M. Rojas</span></p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Director–Lincoln: </span><span class="generated-style">Jonathan Shi</span></p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Coordinator: Terence Foster</span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This major integrates engineering, construction, and management courses and is designed for licensed professional engineers to fulfill the construction industry’s need. It resembles the construction management program but provides a greater emphasis on engineering, scientific, and technical courses so that requirements for licensure are met. </span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Construction engineers prepare engineering and architectural plans and specifications which they translate into finished projects, such as buildings, bridges, highways, power plants, or other constructed facilities. These projects involve details shared by a team of owners, architects, engineers, general constructors, specialty constructors, manufacturers, material suppliers, equipment distributors, regulatory bodies, labor resources, and numerous others. The constructor assumes responsibility for delivery of the completed project at a specified time and cost and also accepts associated legal, financial, and management obligations.</span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The construction industry has expanded its technological capabilities in physical and informational systems, and the demand gives graduates numerous opportunities for employment and pursuing an advanced degree.</span></p>				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are required to enroll in a predetermined set of courses specifically designed for general construction education. Each student selects, with the approval of his/her adviser, a set of approved electives. Students may take their first four semesters of courses in Lincoln but the last four semesters must be completed at Omaha.</span></p>				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">First Semester Hours</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CONE 103 Intro to Construction Engineering 1</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 150E Intro to Computer Programming for Scientists &amp; Engineers 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Second Semester Hours</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 5</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 130 Intro to CAD 2</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 221 General Physics Lab 1</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Third Semester Hours</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 221 Geometric Control Systems 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 223 Engineering Statics 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fourth Semester Hours</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 325 Mechanics of Elastic Bodies 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 373 Engineering Dynamics 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 206 Engineering Economics I 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Fifth through eighth semesters are taken in Omaha.</span></p>				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All coursework must be of “C” grade level or higher to be credited toward graduation requirements or to be valid as a prerequisite for another course.</span></p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>