<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Culinary_Science</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="culinary-science">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name">Culinary Science</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEPARTMENT:</span> Nutrition &amp; Health Sciences</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span> Culinary Science </p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 </p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Judy Hofeldt </p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Culinary Science (Culinology®) option is the emerging discipline of the culinary arts, nutrition and the science of food. Culinology® is becoming a recognized and valued discipline that will significantly impact food research and development in the global market. Culinologists are skilled chefs who are creating a new generation of exciting, high-quality convenience food products. The food industry needs, and rewards, people who understand and can apply the principles of this specialty.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-2">Area of Concentration (22 hrs) </p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Culinary Arts electives from an accredited Culinary Arts Institution</p>				<p class="title-2">Professional Requirements (56 hrs)</p>				<p class="title-3">Nutrition and Health Sciences (24 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for NUTR courses.</span></p>				<p class="list">HRTM 173 Field Experience in Culinology® (1 hr)</p>				<p class="list">NUTR 244 Scientific Principles of Food Preparation (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">NUTR 245 Scientific Principles of Food Preparation Lab (1 hr)</p>				<p class="list">NUTR 250 Human Nutrition &amp; Metabolism (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">NUTR 253 Cultural Aspects of Food &amp; Nutrition (hours met in ACE) (0 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">NUTR 344 Food &amp; Nutrition for Healthy Living (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">NUTR 371 Applied Food Production Lab (1 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">NUTR 372 Food Safety &amp; Sanitation or BIOS 312 Fundamentals of Microbiology (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">NUTR 441 Functional Properties of Food <span class="faculty-list-bold">&amp;/or</span> FDST 448 Food Chemistry <span class="faculty-list-bold">&amp;/or</span> NUTR 445 Experimental Foods (6 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">NUTR 449 Culinology® Research Experience (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="title-3">Food Science and Technology (9 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">FDST 205 Food Composition &amp; Analysis (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">FDST 403 Food Quality Assurance (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">FDST 430 Sensory Evaluation (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">FDST 460 Food Product Development Concepts <span class="requirement-ital">(hours met in ACE)</span> (0 hrs)</p>				<p class="title-3">Supporting Sciences (11 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">BIOC 321 Elements of Biochemistry (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I <span class="requirement-ital">(hours met in ACE)</span> (0 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II (4 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab (4 hrs)</p>				<p class="title-3">Supporting Courses (12 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">CEHS 200 Families, Schools, &amp; Communities<span class="list-ital"> (hours met in ACE) </span>(0 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">ECON 211 &amp; ECON 212 Principles of Macroeconomics &amp; Microeconomics<span class="list-ital"> (hours met in ACE) </span>(0 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">MATH 101 College Algebra (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list-indent"><span class="list-ital">If a student does not place into MATH 101, they must complete the appropriate course(s) plus complete MATH 101. If a student places above MATH 101, the student will take either MATH 101 or the MATH course they placed into.</span></p>				<p class="list">MRKT 341 Marketing (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">STAT 218 Intro to Statistics <span class="list-ital">(hours met in ACE) </span>(0 hrs)</p>				<p class="title-3">Processing Electives (6 hrs)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select two courses from: </span></p>				<p class="list-indent">ASCI 210 Animal Products (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list-indent">ASCI 310 Fresh Meats (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list-indent">ASCI 410 Processed Meats (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list-indent">FDST 363 Heat &amp; Mass Transfer (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list-indent">FDST 405 Food Microbiology (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list-indent">FDST 412 Cereal Technology (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list-indent">FDST 420 Fruit &amp; Vegetable Technology (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list-indent">FDST 429 Dairy Products Technology (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list-indent">FDST 455 Microbiology of Fermented Foods (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list-indent">NUTR 343 Meat Culinology® III: Foodservice Applications (3 hrs) <span class="list-ital">(Grade of C or better required in NUTR 343)</span></p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER </p>				<p class="title-1">Meat Culinology® Certificate Program</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Meat Culinology® Certificate program at UNL concentrates on meat because it is the center of most meals and is the major portion of the food budget in the food service industry. Proper handling and preparation is paramount to the success of a meal and a food establishment. The faculty at UNL who developed this program know that food industry professionals are busy. With little time to take courses on campus, the online Meat Culinology® Certificate program allows professionals the opportunity to advance their education and career by learning more about the science and art of meat. The six-course sequence will teach you everything from harvest to consumption of livestock and poultry. The Meat Culinology® Certificate program consists of six courses. Students must successfully complete all six courses in order to earn certification. Successful completion is considered an earned grade of ‘C’ or higher.</p>				<p class="title-2">Meat Culinology® Certificate Program (18 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">ASCI 210 Animal Products (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">ASCI 213/NUTR 213 Meat Specification &amp; Procurement (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">ASCI 310 Fresh Meats (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">NUTR 343/ASCI 343 Meat Culinology® III: Foodservice Applications (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">ASCI 410 Processed Meats (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">ASCI 411 HACCP &amp; Food Safety Systems for the Food Industry (3 hrs)</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>