<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Dance</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="dance">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name">Dance</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Hixson-Lied College of Fine &amp; Performing Arts</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Dance</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 125</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Susan Levine</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor and Coordinator: Susan Levine,</span> 208 Mabel Lee Hall</p>				<p class="basic-text">The dance major is designed to provide a comprehensive arts experience with emphasis on dance. It is appropriate for students who wish to develop performance and technique skills in dance, who are interested in dance as a fine art, and who wish to prepare to choreograph and teach dance. This program teaches the cultural, theatrical and performing aspects of dance, preparing dancers to participate in dance program concerts and department productions as well as community projects including collaborative works with professional artists. Students have opportunities to take professional master classes and to work with national and international guest choreographers.</p>				<p class="title-2">Degree at a Glance</p>				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">ACE Requirements 30</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Languages: Classical &amp; Modern 0-16</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from the list of “Approved Courses” found under “College Degree Requirements.”</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Library 110 1</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Dance Major Requirements 60</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Electives 18-34</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours Required for Graduation 125</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>				<p class="title-1">Major/Department Admission</p>				<p class="basic-text">A performance audition is required for acceptance as a dance major or minor. Auditions are generally held in January and February. The School of Music should be contacted for audition dates and other details.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Dance Requirements 60</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Dance Technique 16</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">DANC 211 Ballet II 4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">DANC 212 Modern Dance II 4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">DANC 312 Modern Dance III 4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">DANC 412 Modern Dance IV 4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Dance Theory and History 15</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">DANC 159 Intro to History of Dance 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">DANC 228 Music for Dance 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">DANC 338 Dance Kinesiology &amp; Injury Prevention 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">DANC 349 History of Dance: 20th Century &amp; Beyond 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">DANC 448 Pedagogy 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Dance Composition and Performance 10</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">DANC 300 Dance Composition 6</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">DANC 260/DANC 460 Repertory, Improvisation &amp; Performance <span class="requirement-ital">(1 cr each semester)</span> 4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Arts Electives 19</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">Art and Art History 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">Music 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">Theatre 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">Other Arts Electives, including Dance 10</p>				<p class="title-1">Minor Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">Minors are allowed, but not required, with the dance major.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Prerequisite Requirements/Advancement in Major </p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">All entering dance majors must register for 200-level technique courses. It is recommended that all majors enroll for both ballet and modern dance every semester. All majors should participate in a performance each semester.</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-1">Grade Rules </p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">All courses taken to fulfill dance major or minor requirements must be taken for a grade (except those only offered as Pass/No Pass). </li>					<li class="bullet-1">Students must earn grades of C or better in these courses. Any course in which a student earns a grade of C- or below must be repeated in order to count toward the requirement.</li>				</ul>				<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>				<p class="title-3">Plan A minor in dance—18 credits</p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-ital">Students must audition for dance faculty for acceptance as a minor.</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">DANC 159 Intro to History of Dance 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">DANC 338 Dance Kinesiology &amp; Injury Prevention 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">DANC 111 Ballet I 2</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">DANC 112 Modern Dance I 2</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">DANC 211 Ballet II 2</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">DANC 212 Modern Dance II 4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">DANC 312 Modern Dance III 2</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>