<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Dietetics</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="dietetics">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name">Dietetics</p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEPARTMENT:</span> Nutrition &amp; Health Sciences </p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span> Dietetics (Didactic Program in Dietetics) </p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 </p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Judith Hofeldt </p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The Dietetics (Didactic Program in Dietetics) option is designed for students who wish to become registered dietitians and practitioners in clinical, community, food industry, and foodservice areas of nutrition. Registered dietitians are employed by hospitals, community agencies, and various government or private organizations. The University of Nebraska Didactic Program in Dietetics is currently granted accreditation status by the Commission on Accreditation for Dietetics Education of the American Dietetic Association, 120 South Riverside Plaza, Suite 2000, Chicago, IL 60606-6995, 312/899-0040, ext. 5400. Completion of degree requirements will result in the student being awarded a Verification Statement of Completion of the Didactic Program in Dietetics. Following completion of the Didactic Program in Dietetics, an accredited dietetic internship program is required before students are eligible to take the registration examination and obtain the Registered Dietitian (RD) credential.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Acceptance into an accredited dietetic internship program is competitive. Currently, there is a significant shortage of available internship positions for the number of students applying for acceptance into an internship program. Acceptance into an internship program cannot be guaranteed.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">All required accreditation information can be found at http://cehs.unl.edu/nhs/undergrad/dietetics.shtml.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>
				<p class="title-1">Application to the Didactic Program in Dietetics (DPD)</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Following successful completion (a grade of C or above must be earned in all NUTR courses) of prerequisite courses*, application is necessary for entrance into the Didactic Program in Dietetics (DPD) which consists primarily of nutrition course work at the 300 and 400 level.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Program Acceptance Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-ital">(See adviser in Student Advising Center and/or DPD Student Handbook for complete details.)</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list">1. Application must be submitted by February 15 prior to the fall semester of desired acceptance.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">2. Admission requirements for acceptance into the Didactic Program in Dietetics include a cumulative grade point average of 3.0 or above and completion of 48 or more credit hours which must include the following prerequisite courses (courses can be in progress): </p>
				<p class="list-indent">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I &amp; CHEM 110 General Chemistry II</p>
				<p class="list-indent">BIOL 101 &amp; BIOL 101L General Biology &amp; Lab <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> BIOS 102 Cell Structure &amp; Function <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> BIOS 103 Organismic Biology</p>
				<p class="list-indent">NUTR 100 Nutrition, Exercise &amp; Health</p>
				<p class="list-indent">NUTR 150 Foundation in Nutrition &amp; Health Promotion</p>
				<p class="list-indent">NUTR 244 &amp; NUTR 245 Scientific Principles of Food Preparation &amp; Lab</p>
				<p class="list-indent">NUTR 250 Human Nutrition &amp; Metabolism</p>
				<p class="list-indent">NUTR 251 Nutrition Through the Life Cycle</p>
				<p class="list-indent">NUTR 253 Cultural Aspects of Food &amp; Nutrition</p>
				<p class="title-2">Verification Statement of Meeting Didactic Program in Dietetics Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The Department of Nutrition and Health Sciences will provide a Verification Statement of a student meeting Didactic Program in Dietetics (DPD) requirements based on the program in effect in the Undergraduate Bulletin the student is using for graduation requirements if the student is continuously enrolled and graduates within five years. If the student cannot finish their studies within this five-year time period, they must comply with the didactic program reflected in the Undergraduate Bulletin currently in effect. The Department of Nutrition and Health Sciences will not accept course work to meet prerequisite courses for DPD program admission or DPD requirements from any university or college outside the University of Nebraska system in which a grade of D-, D, or D+ was earned.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">In order to receive a Verification Statement of a student meeting Didactic Program in Dietetic requirements, a minimum of 15 credits from 300- or 400-level courses must be completed at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. Nine of the 15 credit hours must come from three of the following classes: NUTR 450 Medical Nutrition Therapy I, NUTR 452 and NUTR 452L Medical Nutrition Therapy II and Lab, NUTR 455 Advanced Nutrition, or NUTR 473 Organization and Administration of Foodservice.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1">Core Requirements </p>
				<p class="title-3">DPD Entrance Requirements (22 hrs)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I (4 hrs)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II (4 hrs)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOL 101 &amp; BIOL 101L General Biology &amp; Lab <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BIOS 102 Cell Structure &amp; Function <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BIOS 103 Organismic Biology <span class="requirement-ital">(hours met in ACE)</span> </p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">NUTR 100 Nutrition, Exercise &amp; Health (3 hrs)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">NUTR 150 Foundations in Nutrition &amp; Health Promotion (1 hr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">NUTR 244 &amp; NUTR 245 Scientific Principles of Food Preparation &amp; Lab (4 hrs)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">NUTR 250 Human Nutrition &amp; Metabolism (3 hrs)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">NUTR 251 Nutrition Through the Life Cycle (3 hrs)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">NUTR 253 Cultural Aspects of Food &amp; Nutrition <span class="requirement-ital">(hours met in ACE)</span> </p>
				<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
				<p class="title-2">Professional Requirements (51-55 hrs)</p>
				<p class="title-3">Nutrition and Health Sciences (32 hrs)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for NUTR courses.</p>
				<p class="list">NUTR 344 Food &amp; Nutrition for Healthy Living (3 hrs)</p>
				<p class="list">NUTR 356 Nutrition Education in the Community (3 hrs)</p>
				<p class="list">NUTR 370 Food Production Management (3 hrs)</p>
				<p class="list">NUTR 371 Applied Food Production Lab (1 hrs)</p>
				<p class="list">NUTR 402 Facts &amp; Fiction in Fitness &amp; Food (3 hrs)</p>
				<p class="list">NUTR 450 Medical Nutrition Therapy I (3 hrs)</p>
				<p class="list">NUTR 452 Medical Nutrition Therapy II (3 hrs)</p>
				<p class="list">NUTR 452L Medical Nutrition Therapy II Lab (1 hrs)</p>
				<p class="list">NUTR 453 Nutrition &amp; Fitness Communication Strategies (3 hrs)</p>
				<p class="list">NUTR 455 Advanced Nutrition (3 hrs)</p>
				<p class="list">NUTR 470 Cost Control for Foodservice (2 hrs)</p>
				<p class="list">NUTR 473 Organization &amp; Administration of Foodservice (3 hrs)</p>
				<p class="list">NUTR 490 Professional Preparation for Careers in Dietetics (1 hrs)</p>
				<p class="title-3">Supporting Courses (4-7 hrs)</p>
				<p class="list">CEHS 200 Families, Schools, &amp; Communities <span class="list-ital">(hours met in ACE) </span></p>
				<p class="list">EDPS 459 Statistical Methods <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> STAT 218 Intro to Statistics <span class="list-ital">(hours met in ACE) </span></p>
				<p class="list">PSYC 181 Intro to Psychology (4 hrs)</p>
				<p class="list">MATH 101 College Algebra or higher, trigonometry or calculus <span class="list-ital">(MATH requirement waived if placed above MATH 101 on Math Placement Exam)</span> (0-3 hrs)</p>
				<p class="title-3">Supporting Sciences (15-16 hrs)</p>
				<p class="list">BIOS 111 The Biology of Microoganisms <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> BIOS 312 &amp; BIOS 314 Fundamentals of Microbiology &amp; Lab <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> NUTR 372 Food Safety &amp; Sanitation (3-4 hrs)</p>
				<p class="list">BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L Human Physiology &amp; Lab <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> ASCI 240 Anatomy &amp; Physiology of Domestic Animals (4 hrs)</p>
				<p class="list">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab (4 hrs)</p>
				<p class="list">BIOC 321 &amp; BIOC 321L Elements of Biochemistry &amp; Lab <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> BIOC 431 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism (4 hrs)</p>
				<p class="title-3">Electives (11-16 hrs)</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
				<p class="title-2">Grades Earned at UNL, UNO, UNK</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Grades of D-, D, D+, C- satisfy requirements of the programs in human sciences unless specified otherwise under the Programs and Departments section of the bulletin. Students who receive a grade of D-, D, D+, or C-, however, are encouraged to retake the course, particularly if it is in the major area.</p>
				<p class="title-2">Grades Earned Outside UN System</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Up to 9 hours of grades below C (C-, D+, D, D-) from other academic institutions can only be applied to general education requirements and elective classes. </p>
				<p class="title-2">Policy for Pass/No Pass Courses</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The Pass/No Pass (P/N) option is designed for students who want to study elective areas or topics when they may have minimum preparation. If used for this purpose, the option can enrich the student’s academic experience without lowering the student’s grade point average. Free electives may be taken P/N. Students can earn no more than 12 hours of pass credit excluding courses offered on Pass/No Pass only basis. Not all classes can be taken under the Pass/No Pass option. All courses, specified by course and number, must be taken for a grade. Should a student have earned a P in one of the courses prior to starting the option, the P will be reviewed by the appropriate department.</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
