<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Economics_(CBA)</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="economics-cba-">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name">Economics (CBA)</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Business Administration</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Economics (CBA)</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 hours for degree (21 hours for the major) </p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes–for CBA students only</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Roger Butters</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Scott M. Fuess, Jr.</span></p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Anderson, Cushing, Edwards, Fuess, Hayden, MacPhee, May, Rosenbaum, Schmidt, van den Berg, Walstad</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Allgood, Kim, McGarvey, Thompson</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Butters, Giertz</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> Asarta</p>				<p class="basic-text">Economic analysis is useful in many decisions made by individuals, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and governments. In addition to opportunities in teaching, economists are employed in many branches of government and on the staffs of corporations in manufacturing, insurance, banking, brokerage, and financial services. Economists often serve as consultants, either individually or in consulting firms. Today’s economists deal with problems ranging from monetary and fiscal policy, monopoly and competition, environmental improvement, labor relations, regional development, urban reconstruction, economic development and international business and finance. Economics is also a popular major for students planning to enter professional and graduate programs, particularly in law, foreign service, labor relations, or business administration.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph">The Department of Economics offers the opportunity for intensive study in twelve specialized economic areas: </p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">General Economics and Theory. </span>Develops fundamental reasoning skills and analytical tools necessary to understand and evaluate economic issues such as specialization, trade, efficiency, costs, markets, prices, resource allocation, money, labor, and government and think critically about economic theory and social provisioning.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Comparative International and Regional Development. </span>Examines how human capital, fiscal policy, natural features, and industry clusters influence the comparative advantage, growth, and standard of living in urban and regional economies between and within countries. </p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Econometrics.</span></p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Economic Education.</span></p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Economic History.</span> Examines the transformation in economic life that accompanied the rise of market capitalism in the United States and focus on the impact of this transformation on the environment, society, and individuals. Courses in this area are integrative in nature and allow students the opportunity to examine the complex nature of economic development throughout American history.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Industrial Organization and Regulation.</span></p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Institutional Economics.</span></p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">International Trade and Finance. </span>Examines the causes and effects of imports, exports, foreign investment, and migration and their implications for exchange rates, the balance of payments, and economic welfare. </p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Labor Economics.</span> Focuses on how labor markets function and thus, how wages and employment are determined. The decisions of labor market participants are studied, as are employment practices and public policies related to employment issues. </p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Monetary Economics.</span> Studies the role of money and banking system, and of Federal Reserve’s monetary policy in the determination of output, employment, interest rates, prices and business cycles in the domestic and open-economy context. </p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Public Finance. </span>Survey of taxation and public expenditures in theory and practice. Understanding the logic of collective action, the theory of public goods, social welfare, redistribution and intergovernmental fiscal relations.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Quantitative Economics.</span></p>				<p class="header-paragraph">For some careers, study in related areas is advisable. If you’re interested in:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Human Resource Management – take additional courses in labor economics and economic history</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Finance – courses in money and banking and intermediate microeconomics and macroeconomics are helpful</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Marketing – econometrics courses add to your resume</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Accounting – econometrics and public finance courses covering taxes are useful</li>				</ul>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>				<p class="title-1">Major/Department Admission</p>				<p class="basic-text">Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University Admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Core Requirements</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 21 hours of course work for the major.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">All students, regardless of their major or interests in the College will take ECON 211, ECON 212, and ECON 215 as part of the Business Core Foundation requirements.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">NONE of these courses may be used to count toward the major.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">As noted in the College Degree Requirements section, all course work for the major must be taken for a grade.</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>				<p class="title-2">Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M) </p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">In addition to the 9 general credit-hours of the Business Core Foundation Course requirements (ECON 211, ECON 212 and ECON 215), an economics major must complete 21 credit hours of economics.</li>					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">All courses for the major, with the exception of ECON 399, must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass).</span> If ECON 399 is taken as Pass/No Pass, it may only be used as an elective.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Completion of ECON 311 and ECON 312 is recommended before enrolling in additional 300/400-level economics course work. </li>				</ul>				<p class="header-paragraph">The requirements for the major include:</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 311 Intermediate Macroeconomics (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 312 Intermediate Microeconomics (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="list-indent">Economics 300- or 400-level course (6 hrs)</p>				<p class="list-indent">Economics 400-level courses (9 hrs)</p>				<p class="list-indent"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Total (21 hrs)</span></p>				<p class="title-1">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text"> While not required, students majoring in economics may choose to pursue areas of interest in the following disciplines to fulfill requirements for the major. Course options appear under each area. </p>				<p class="title-3">General Economics and Theory</p>				<p class="list">ECON 311 Intermediate Macroeconomics</p>				<p class="list">ECON 312 Intermediate Microeconomics</p>				<p class="list">ECON 389 Current Economic Issues</p>				<p class="list">ECON 413 Social Insurance</p>				<p class="list">ECON 433 History of Economic Thought</p>				<p class="list">ECON 445 Gender, Economics, &amp; Social Provisioning</p>				<p class="title-3">Comparative International and Regional Development</p>				<p class="list">ECON 323 The Economic Development of Latin America</p>				<p class="list">ECON 340 Intro to Urban-Regional Economics</p>				<p class="list">ECON 388 Comparative Economic Systems</p>				<p class="list">ECON 423 Economics of the Less Developed Countries</p>				<p class="list">ECON 440 Regional Development</p>				<p class="list">ECON 442 Regional Analysis</p>				<p class="list">ECON 466 Pro-seminar in International Relations I</p>				<p class="list">ECON 467 Pro-seminar in International Relations II</p>				<p class="list">ECON 487 Economies in Transition</p>				<p class="title-3">Econometrics</p>				<p class="list">ECON 417 Introductory Econometrics</p>				<p class="title-3">Economic Education <span class="basic-text-ital">(Also see courses in Quantitative Economics)</span></p>				<p class="list">ECON 450 Economics for Teachers </p>				<p class="list">ECON 451 Economics Issues for Teachers</p>				<p class="title-3">Economic History</p>				<p class="list">ECON 375 Women &amp; Work in United States History</p>				<p class="list">ECON 457 19th Century United States Economic History</p>				<p class="list">ECON 458 20th Century United States Economic History</p>				<p class="title-3">Industrial Organization and Regulation</p>				<p class="list">ECON 426 Government Intervention in Markets</p>				<p class="list">ECON 435 Market Competition</p>				<p class="list"><span class="list-ital">Also see the following economics courses:</span></p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 457/857 19th Century U.S. Economic History</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 458/858 20th Century U.S. Economic History</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 472/872 Efficiency in Government</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 487/887 Economies in Transition</p>				<p class="title-3">Institutional Economics</p>				<p class="list">ECON 475 Theory &amp; Analysis of Institutional Economics</p>				<p class="title-3">International Trade and Finance</p>				<p class="list">ECON 321 Intro to International Economics</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> ECON 321 is also an ACE 9 course option and can be taken to fulfill the NBR 6–ACE 9 requirement as well as a course for the major (AND it is also an IBCR).</p>				<p class="list">ECON 421 International Trade</p>				<p class="list">ECON 422 International Finance</p>				<p class="list"><span class="list-ital">For additional courses, see Comparative International &amp; Regional Development</span></p>				<p class="title-3">Labor Economics </p>				<p class="list">ECON 381 Intro to Labor Economics</p>				<p class="list">ECON 481 Economics of the Labor Market</p>				<p class="list">ECON 482 Labor in the National Economy</p>				<p class="list">ECON 485 Government &amp; Labor</p>				<p class="title-3">Monetary Economics</p>				<p class="list">ECON 303 An Intro to Money &amp; Banking</p>				<p class="list">ECON 365 Financial Institutions &amp; Markets</p>				<p class="list">ECON 403 Money &amp; the Financial System</p>				<p class="list">ECON 404 Current Issues in Monetary Economics</p>				<p class="title-3">Public Finance</p>				<p class="list">ECON 371 Elements of Public Finance</p>				<p class="list">ECON 471 Public Finance</p>				<p class="list">ECON 472 Efficiency in Government</p>				<p class="title-3">Quantitative Economics</p>				<p class="list">ECON 409 Applied Public Policy Analysis</p>				<p class="list">ECON 416 Statistics for Decision Making</p>				<p class="list">ECON 419 Topics in Applied Research</p>				<p class="list"><span class="list-ital">Also see Econometrics area for additional courses in quantitative economics.</span></p>				<p class="title-3">Research and Thesis</p>				<p class="basic-text">Seminar and research courses in specific fields are listed in their respective divisions.</p>				<p class="list">ECON 189H University Honors Seminar</p>				<p class="list">ECON 399 Independent Study</p>				<p class="list">ECON 399H Honors: Independent Study</p>				<p class="list">ECON 499H Honors Thesis</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Grade Rules </p>				<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>				<p class="basic-text">Same as College grade rules.</p>				<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits </p>				<p class="basic-text">Same as College Pass/No Pass limits.</p>				<p class="title-2">GPA Requirements </p>				<p class="basic-text">Same as College GPA requirements.</p>				<p class="title-1">Course Level Requirement</p>				<p class="basic-text"> Completion of ECON 311 and ECON 312 is recommended before taking other 300/400-level economics courses.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT </p>				<p class="title-1">Economics Minor Requirements</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">The economics minor offered through CBA is available to <span class="basic-text-bold">College of Business Administration students only</span>. </li>					<li class="bullet-1">Economics course work used for this minor <span class="basic-text-bold">cannot</span> be double counted toward business core foundation (BCF), intermediate (BCI), or advanced-major (BCA-M; BCA-A) degree requirements, for another major, nor any other business minor requirements (with the exception of business electives). </li>					<li class="bullet-1">Business students choosing to minor in economics must follow the CBA economics minor requirements.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">College of Arts and Sciences (ASC) students interested in completing an economics minor must refer to the ASC section for the ASC economics major/minor.</li>				</ul>				<p class="header-paragraph">To fulfill the requirements for an economics minor, CBA students must complete:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1"> Nine (9) graded hours of 300/400-level economics course work </li>					<li class="bullet-1">All course work must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass)</li>				</ul>				<p class="header-paragraph">Economics Minor Requirements for Arts and Science economics major:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">If majoring in economics through the College of Arts and Sciences, please see economics minor for ASC for specific requirements.</li>				</ul>				<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>				<p class="basic-text">All students enrolling in CBA courses are required to meet the prerequisites listed for each course, including any specific grade or GPA requirement, to include junior standing for enrollment in most 300 or 400-level economics courses.</p>				<p class="basic-text">ECON 211 and ECON 212 Macro- and Microeconomics are ACE 6 and ACE 8 approved course work and have been double counted to fulfill both the ACE requirement of the University (for ACE 6 and 8) and the College’s Business Core Foundation (BCF) requirements.</p>				<p class="basic-text">ECON 321 Introduction to International Economics is an approved ACE 9 course and while most students will complete ACE 9 during the freshman and sophomore year with other course work, transfer and upper-class students meeting the prerequisite, may wish to take this class, counting it for both an NBR 6–ACE 9 and as a course for the Business Core Advanced–Major (MCA–M) in economics. It also may be used to fulfill the International Business Course Requirement (IBCR), allowing it to be counted three ways.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Regardless of its double or triple counting, there are only 3 hours of credit awarded and students must still meet the 120 hour requirement for graduation.</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>