<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Electrical_Engineering</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="electrical-engineering">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Electrical Engineering</span></p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> College of Engineering </span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Electrical Engineering</span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering</span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span><span class="quick-point-bold">126</span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Jerry Varner</span></p>				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Jerry L. Hudgins</span></p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Chair:</span><span class="generated-style"> Sohrab Asgarpoor</span></p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Alexander, Bahar, Balkir, Boye, Hoffman, Hudgins, Ianno, Lu, Sayood, Soukup, Woollam</span></p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Asgarpoor, Pérez, Schubert, Snyder, Vakilzadian, Varner</span></p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Franke-Shubert, Gursoy, Velipasalar</span></p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Visiting Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Patterson</span></p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Instructor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Russell</span></p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Senior Lecturer:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bauer</span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Electrical engineering is concerned with the production, transmission, and utilization of electrical energy and the transmission and processing of information. Employment opportunities for electrical engineers cover a wide spectrum of activities including design, development, research, sales, and management. These activities are carried on in industrial organizations, public and private utilities, the communications and computer industry, governmental and educational institutions, and consulting engineering firms. The objective of this major is to offer students an education to become productive electrical engineers and be active, contributing citizens of the nation and the world.</span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This department has over 25 faculty involved in research related to electronic materials, nano-technology, optical systems, communications, biomedical applications, signal processing, microelectronics design, energy systems, and electromagnetics. Students are encouraged to participate in research activities, and have opportunities to travel and present their research results.</span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The department has extensive research facilities for all areas including state of the art computing facilities, integrated circuits and systems research facilities, communications and signal-processing laboratories, applied electromagnetics research, solid state laboratories, nanostructures research, electro-optics research and energy systems laboratories.</span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The curriculum is designed to provide a broad education in fundamental principles and laboratory applications, and an awareness of the socioeconomic impact of technology. Technical electives are normally selected from advanced courses in electrical engineering to provide for specialization in selected areas. However, technical electives can also be selected from courses offered by other departments of the College of Engineering or from appropriate physics, chemistry, mathematics, and biological sciences courses. </span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The department administers a network of high-end UNIX workstations and PCs, upgraded regularly, and used for classroom instruction as well as the individual needs of students.</span></p>				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Major/Department Admission</span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for admission to the Department of Electrical Engineering will be granted if he/she has: </span></p>				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. maintained a cumulative GPA of at least 2.4 and is in good standing in the College of Engineering, and, </span></p>				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. completed ELEC 215 and ELEC 216 with a grade of C or better. </span></p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">A transfer student will be admitted if he/she has: </span></p>				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. completed courses equivalent to ELEC 215 and 216 at other institutions with acceptable transfer grades of C or better, and, </span></p>				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. a GPA of 2.4 or better during their first 12 credit hours in Electrical Engineering course work at UNL. </span></p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Transfer students will be able to appeal to the advisers for admission if they fail to meet the GPA requirement for an additional semester.</span></p>				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for the Degree</span></p>				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">First Semester Hours</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 121 Intro to Electrical Engineering I 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 10 Freshman Engineering Seminar 0</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Science Elective 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose two of three from the following: BIOS 101 and BIOS 101L; CHEM 109 or CHEM 111 or CHEM 113; and PHYS 213. </span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Second Semester Hours</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 122 Intro to Electrical Engineering II 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 5</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Communications Elective 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose two of three from JGEN 200, JGEN 300, and COMM 286 so as to meet both ACE 1 and 2. </span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Third Semester Hours</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 215 Electronics &amp; Circuits I 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 235 Introductory Electrical Lab I 1</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 222 General Physics Lab II 1</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Computer Programming Elective 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> The approved computer programming elective consists of at least 3 credits from CSCE 150A, CSCE 150E, CSCE 155, CSCE 156, CSCE 251, CSCE 251K, CSCE 252A, or CSCE 310.</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fourth Semester Hours</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 216 Electronics &amp; Circuits II 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 222 Intro to Embedded Systems 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 236 Introductory Electrical Lab II 1</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Science Elective 4</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose two of three from the following: BIOS 101 and BIOS 101L; CHEM 109 or CHEM 111 or CHEM 113; and PHYS 213. </span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fifth Semester Hours</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 304 Signals &amp; Systems I 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 307 Electrical Engineering Lab I 2</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 316 Electronics &amp; Circuits III 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 370 Digital Logic Design 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Technical Elective 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> The department maintains an approved list of technical electives (within and outside of EE) on the department Web site.</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Sixth Semester Hours</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 305 Probability Theory &amp; Intro to Random Processes 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 306 Electromagnetic Field Theory 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 317 Electrical Engineering Lab II 2</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Technical Electives 6</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> The department maintains an approved list of technical electives (within and outside of EE) on the department Web site.</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Communications Elective 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose two of three from JGEN 200, JGEN 300, and COMM 286 so as to meet both ACE 1 and 2. </span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Seventh Semester Hours</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 494 Electrical Engineering Senior Design I 2</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Technical Electives 9</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> The department maintains an approved list of technical electives (within and outside of EE) on the department Web site.</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 14</span></p>				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Eighth Semester Hours</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 495 Electrical Engineering Senior Design II 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Technical Electives 9</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> The department maintains an approved list of technical electives (within and outside of EE) on the department Web site.</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Credit Hours Required for Graduation 126</span></p>				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Each EE undergraduate student must choose one of the options listed below for the EE technical electives.</span></p>				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Electrical Engineering Options</span></p>				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Communications &amp; Signal Processing </span></p>				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Electromagnetic Fields and Optics </span></p>				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Electronics and Computer Engineering </span></p>				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Energy and Power Systems </span></p>				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Materials and Devices </span></p>				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Electives</span></p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">There are twenty-seven (27) credit hours of technical electives required. Of these 27 credit hours, at least 12 credit hours must be taken in electrical engineering (ELEC) courses which are referred to as “EE technical electives.” Below is a list of courses in each option.</span></li>				</ul>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">1. Communications &amp; Signal Processing</span></p>				<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">ELEC 462</span><span class="generated-style">, </span><span class="basic-text-bold">ELEC 463</span><span class="generated-style">, ELEC 464, ELEC 465, ELEC 410 </span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">2. Electromagnetic Fields and Optics</span></p>				<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">ELEC 408</span><span class="generated-style">, ELEC 467, ELEC 468, ELEC 480, ELEC 486 </span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">3. Electronics and Computer Engineering</span></p>				<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">ELEC 361</span><span class="generated-style">, ELEC 469, ELEC 470, </span><span class="basic-text-bold">ELEC 475</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">4. Energy and Power Systems</span></p>				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 406, </span><span class="basic-text-bold">ELEC 438</span><span class="generated-style">, ELEC 444, </span><span class="basic-text-bold">ELEC 428</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">5. Materials and Devices</span></p>				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 417, ELEC 420, </span><span class="basic-text-bold">ELEC 421</span><span class="generated-style">, ELEC 422 </span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Of these 12 credit hours, 6 credit hours must be taken from one of the five EE options listed (including at least one </span><span class="basic-text-bold">bold</span><span class="generated-style"> course). </span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition, at least one 3 credit hour course from a different EE Option must be taken. The remaining 3 credits may be satisfied by any non-required 300 or 400 level electrical engineering courses except ELEC 399.</span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The remaining 15 credit hours of technical electives which are referred to as “other technical electives” may be taken from any 300 or 400 level course offering (with the exception of those listed below) in the Department of Electrical Engineering or in any other </span><span class="basic-text-ital">engineering</span><span class="generated-style"> department within the College of Engineering at UNL, or in the Departments of Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Computer Science and Engineering, Mathematics, Statistics, or Physics and Astronomy at UNL. </span></p>				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Not Allowed 300 and 400 Level Technical Electives</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 310 School of Biological Sciences Seminar</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 305 Intro to Engineering Management</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MATH 495 Seminar </span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MATH 496 Seminar in Mathematics</span></p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">In addition, a list of courses at the 100 and 200 level, which also will be accepted as technical elective credits, are listed below.</span></p>				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Allowed 100 and 200 Level Technical Electives</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">AGEN 225/BSEN 225 Engineering Properties of Biological Materials</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ASTR 204 Intro to Astronomy &amp; Astrophysics</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ASTR 224 Astronomy &amp; Astrophysics Lab</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 213 Human Physiology</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CHME 202 Mass &amp; Energy Balances</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CHME 203 Equilibrium Stage Operations</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 114 Fundamental Chemistry II</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 2xx Any 200 level chemistry course</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 156 Computer Science II </span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 235 Intro to Discrete Structures</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 251 Unix Programming Environment</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 251K C Programming</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 252A FORTRAN Programming</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 223 Engineering Statics</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 250 Mechanics I</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MECH 200 Engineering Thermodynamics</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">METL 260 Elements of Materials Science</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">METL 262 Materials Lab I</span></p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">In place of a maximum of 6 credit hours of technical electives, up to two courses may be selected from one of the Business Options listed below. In order for business courses to count as a Business Option, the courses cannot be taken Pass/No Pass.</span></p>				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Business Options</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">1. Engineering Economics</span></p>				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 206, IMSE 305 </span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">2. Management</span></p>				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 360, MNGT 465 </span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">3. Management Information Systems</span></p>				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 321, MNGT 350, MNGT 360 </span></p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">No more than a total of 3 credit hours may be taken in ELEC 399 or similar offerings from other departments.</span></p>				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">C- and D Grades</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 216 – Prereq: A grade of C or better in ELEC 215; Prereq or Parallel: MATH 221 and ELEC 236.</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 304 – Prereq: A grade of C or better in ELEC 216; MATH 221; ELEC 122 or CSCE 155</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 316 – Prereq: A grade of C or better in ELEC 216</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 306 – Prereq: A grade of C or better in ELEC 216; PHYS 212; MATH 221</span></p>				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER: </span></p>				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">EE Resource Room/Tutoring</span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department of Electrical Engineering has a resource room (W115 NH) staffed by upper class undergraduates and graduate students. Students can get help with their homework, get answers to technical questions, etc. The room is open approximately 20 hours per week. Open hours for each semester are posted outside the room.</span></p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A list of tutors is available from the Department of Electrical Engineering, 209N, SEC. At the beginning of each semester students are invited to offer their services through these lists. </span></p>				<p class="end"><span class="generated-style">###</span></p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>