<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>International_Business</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="international-business">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name">International Business</p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Business Administration</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> International Business</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 hours for degree (21 hours for the major)</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.5 for graduation</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes–for CBA students only</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> D’vee Buss</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Students in international business study the business practices of other nations and learn how international trade laws affect the world economy. A background in international business will help students become a better member of the management team of any corporation. From banks to manufacturing firms, an increasing number of industries need professionals who understand the world’s business environment. Import and export firms, agricultural commodities firms, and government and non-government agencies may specifically seek international expertise. Students are encouraged to consult with advisers in the Dean’s Office for Undergraduate Programs for the selection of appropriate courses to meet the requirements for the major.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Students are encouraged to begin thinking about their plans to study abroad during their freshman year by visiting with the advising office staff, and representatives of International Affairs, 420 University Terrace. It is suggested that students begin language and culture courses their freshman year as well. Upper-level course work and study abroad experience should be done sometime in the junior or senior year. The Advising Office will work with students to outline how their study abroad courses will fulfill program requirements.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Because the nature of the major requires careful selection of course work to count for appropriate requirements, students are strongly encouraged to consult with their adviser or a staff member in the Dean’s Office for Undergraduate Programs. For specific prerequisite requirements and concurrent registration options, refer to the individual course descriptions.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>
				<p class="title-1">Major/Department Admission</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University Admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1">Core Requirements</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 21 hours of course work for the major.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Additional hours may be required if starting at the introductory level language courses and/or if taking non-business course work as part of the major.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">As noted in the College Degree Requirements section, all course work for the major (including the language courses and other non-business classes) must be taken for a grade.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1"> Course work for the major must be selected from the approved list of courses.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">No departmental 399/499 may be counted toward the major, options, or minor.</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph">See OTHER section for additional policies and procedures regarding the international business major.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
				<p class="title-2">Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M)</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Requirements for students interested in pursuing the bachelor of science degree with a major in international business will complete three components consisting of:</p>
				<p class="title-3">(1) Language </p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent">MINIMUM 6 hours of 300/400-level language course work.</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">The courses required for the language must be advanced, from <span class="basic-text-bold">one</span> language, and include <span class="basic-text-bold">one complete sequence (one year)</span>, regardless of a student’s point of entrance with previous language instruction.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Students must select one of the following to satisfy this requirement.</li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="basic-text-bold">Option 1:</span> A <span class="basic-text-bold">minimum</span> of 6 hours in <span class="basic-text-bold">one</span> language, choosing from courses offered at the third year (300 level or above) in the following languages: Chinese, Czech, French, German, Japanese, Russian, or Spanish. </li>
					<li class="bullet-3">All lectures and readings must be conducted in the chosen foreign language for the courses to qualify.</li>
					<li class="bullet-3">Independent study and special topic classes may not be used for this purpose, unless pre-arrangements have been made for the acceptance of study abroad credit.</li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="basic-text-bold">Option 2:</span> For international students pursuing an international business major, <span class="basic-text-ital">choose one of the following</span>:</li>
					<li class="bullet-3">one of the above options (other than their native language and other than a language in which they are fluent) or</li>
					<li class="bullet-3">complete 6 hours of English with 3 hours at the 300 level (or above)</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NBR 4–ACE 5, Humanities</span> (if not already completed during the freshman/sophomore year) can be fulfilled by taking an approved ACE language course (or approved ACE English for international students) and also counting it to fulfill the language requirement for the IBUS major.</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">FREN 301, FREN 302, RUSS 301, RUSS 302, RUSS 482, RUSS 483, SPAN 421, SPAN 445 (Approved NBR 4–ACE 5 options)</li>
					<li class="bullet-2">Double counting is permitted between NBR 4–ACE 5 and the IBUS major or</li>
					<li class="bullet-2">NBR 4–ACE 5 and the language minor, but not for both the major AND minor.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">For international students only: 3 hours of approved ACE 5 300-level English – see approved list of NBR–ACE 5 course work; </li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text">If one is selected, please see an adviser in CBA 138 for exception processing to have it count both places.</p>
				<p class="title-3">(2) International Business and Non-Business course work </p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent">MINIMUM 15 hours of 300/400-level course work from approved list.</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">MINIMUM of 9 hours must be selected from the approved international business course work offered by the College of Business Administration.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">A MAXIMUM of 6 hours may be selected from the approved list of non-business course work.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">9 hours of international course work (both business and non-business) must be at the 400-level.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Courses must be selected from the approved list of courses:</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph">Double count options for NBR 6–ACE 9 requirements and major are available for students interested in taking any of the following: AECN 346, AECN 367, AECN 420, AECN 425, ECON 321 or MNGT 428. Course work may count for NBR 6–ACE 9 and major OR NBR 6–ACE 9 and minor in which this course work is accepted, but not for both the major AND minor. If selecting this option, please see an adviser in CBA 138 for exception processing to have this count in both places</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Approved Business Courses</span> (9-15 hours; <span class="basic-text-bold">minimum</span> 9 business hours):</p>
				<p class="list">FINA 429/MNGT 429/MRKT 429 Undergraduate Seminar in Japanese Business (3-6 hrs) <span class="list-ital">(Credit option for student studying on the Nebraska at Senshu (Japan) University Program only.)</span></p>
				<p class="list">BSAD 491 International Studies in Business &amp; Economics (1-15 hrs) (Credit option for students studying abroad for course work with no direct business equivalency.) <span class="list-ital">(Pre-approval for credit required [except as noted below].) (Credit option for students participating in the Pan Pacific Study Tour.)</span></p>
				<p class="list">ECON 321 Intro to International Economics</p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="list-ital">If not already completed, ECON 321 may double count for the major AND NBR 6–ACE 9, Global Awareness.</span></p>
				<p class="list">ECON 322 Intro to Development Economics <span class="list-ital">(credit cannot be earned in both ECON 322 and AECN 367)</span></p>
				<p class="list">ECON 323 The Economic Development of Latin America</p>
				<p class="list">ECON 388 Comparative Economics Systems</p>
				<p class="list">ECON 421 International Trade <span class="list-ital">(credit cannot be earned in both ECON 421 and AECN 420)</span></p>
				<p class="list">ECON 422 International Finance</p>
				<p class="list">ECON 423 Economics of the Less Developed Countries</p>
				<p class="list">ECON 440 Regional Development</p>
				<p class="list">ECON 466 &amp; ECON 467 Pro-Seminar in International Relations I &amp; II <span class="list-ital">(Credit option for students participating in the Nebraska at Oxford Program.)</span></p>
				<p class="list">ECON 487 Economies in Transition</p>
				<p class="list">FINA 450 International Financial Management</p>
				<p class="list">MNGT 398 Global Entrepreneurship <span class="list-ital">(Credit option for students participating in the Pan Pacific Study Tour.)</span> </p>
				<p class="list">MNGT 428 International Management <span class="list-ital">(If not completed at this point MNGT 428 may double count for the major and ACE 9.)</span> </p>
				<p class="list">MNGT 459/MIST 459 Global Information Systems</p>
				<p class="list">MRKT 453 International Marketing <span class="list-ital">(prerequisite requires completion of 6 hours of MRKT course work)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3">Non-Business Courses (maximum 6 hours permitted)</p>
				<p class="list">AECN 346 World Food Economics <span class="list-ital">(If not completed at this point AECN 346 may double count for the major and ACE 9.)</span> </p>
				<p class="list">AECN 367 Agricultural Development in Developing Countries <span class="list-ital">(credit cannot be earned in both ECON 322 and AECN 367)</span></p>
				<p class="list">AECN 420 International Food &amp; Agricultural Trade <span class="list-ital">(credit cannot be earned in both ECON 421 and AECN 420) (If not completed at this point, AECN 420 is an ACE 9 or ACE 10 and may double count for both the major and either ACE 9 or 10.)</span></p>
				<p class="list">AECN 425 Agricultural Marketing in a Multinational Environment <span class="list-ital">(If not completed at this point, AECN 425 is an ACE 9 or ACE 10 and may double count for both the major and either ACE 9 or 10.)</span></p>
				<p class="list">ANTH 350 Peoples &amp; Cultures of Native Latin America</p>
				<p class="list">ANTH 362 Peoples &amp; Cultures of Africa</p>
				<p class="list">ANTH 366 Peoples &amp; Cultures of East Asia</p>
				<p class="list">GEOG 375 Geography of Asia</p>
				<p class="list">GEOG 378 Geography of Latin America</p>
				<p class="list">HIST 330 Contemporary Europe</p>
				<p class="list">POLS 360 Understanding World Politics</p>
				<p class="list">POLS 361 The United Nations &amp; World Politics</p>
				<p class="list">POLS 362 Globalization, Human Rights &amp; Diversity</p>
				<p class="list">POLS 371 Politics of the European Union</p>
				<p class="list">POLS 376 Chinese Politics</p>
				<p class="list">POLS 459/ POLS 859 International Political Economy</p>
				<p class="list">POLS 464/ POLS 864 Political Economy of the Asia Pacific</p>
				<p class="list">POLS 469 International Law</p>
				<p class="list">POLS 474/ POLS 874 Comparative Institutions</p>
				<p class="title-3">(3) Study Abroad </p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent">In addition to completing course work required for the major, students majoring in International Business are also required to participate in a UNL sponsored study abroad experience. </p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">This must be completed while in college.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">A MINIMUM of 3 hours of UNL sponsored or approved study abroad credit must be achieved as part of the study abroad experience.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">International students must study in a country other than the U.S. and their home country.</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1">Minor Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text">While not required, students should consider a minor in the language (if available) and/or consider options in other departments related to the country of interest (i.e., history, political science, international affairs, Asian studies, ethnic or European studies, Latin American Studies, etc.)</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">Refer to Arts &amp; Science minors for options and requirements which may compliment the major and/or language of interest.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">If applicable (and acceptable courses for the minor are listed) course work that has not already been used for double counting for NBR 4–ACE 5, Humanities or NBR 6–ACE 9 AND the major, IBUS majors have the option to count approved ACE language course work for the international business major and the minor (not an option with any other CBA majors). </li>
					<li class="bullet-2">Double count options for NBR 4–ACE 5 requirements and major (OR NBR/ACE and minor)</li>
					<li class="bullet-3">FREN 301, FREN 302, RUSS 301, RUSS 302, RUSS 482, RUSS 483, SPAN 421, SPAN 445</li>
					<li class="bullet-2">Double count options for NBR 6–ACE 9 requirements and major (OR NBR/ACE and minor)</li>
					<li class="bullet-3">AECN 346, AECN 367, AECN 420, AECN 425, ECON 321 or MNGT 428, NBR 6–ACE 9</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">In other words, a student can double count the language for:</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="list-indent">NBR 4–ACE 5 and the major OR </p>
				<p class="list-indent">NBR 4–ACE 5 and the minor OR </p>
				<p class="list-indent">If not taking for NBR, then for the major AND minor.</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">In any of these instances, credit hours count only ONCE; student still needs 120 hours for the degree </li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Be sure to distinguish differences between Plan A &amp; B minors (as Plan A requires completion of only ONE minor, while Plan B requires completion of an additional minor).</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1">Electives</p>
				<p class="basic-text">See College Degree Requirements–Electives for additional options/restrictions regarding elective credit for the degree. </p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Enrollment in most upper-level business courses usually requires completion of an introductory course in that major area as well as other prerequisites. Refer to course descriptions EARLY in the program to plan for completion of specific course prerequisites.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Grade Rules </p>
				<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Same as College grade rules.</p>
				<p class="title-2"> Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Same as College Pass/No Pass limits.</p>
				<p class="title-2">GPA Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Same as College GPA requirements.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Course Level Requirement</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Enrollment in 300/400-level language courses requires completion of introductory course work or appropriate placement on the Modern Language Placement exam.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
				<p class="title-1">International Business Minor</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">The international business minor is available to College of Business Administration students only. </li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Course work used for this minor cannot be double counted toward business core foundation (BCF) intermediate (BCI) or advanced-major (BCA-M, BCA-A) degree requirements, for another major, nor any other business minor requirements.</li>
					<li class="bullet-2">ECON 321 and MNGT 428 can count for minor AND NBR 6–ACE 9 “IF” not being used for another major.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">All course work for the minor must be taken for a grade.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Departmental 399/499’s may NOT be used toward the minor.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">To fulfill the requirements for an international business minor, students must complete 12 hours from those courses listed under the Approved Business Courses.</li>
					<li class="bullet-2">A <span class="basic-text-bold">maximum</span> of 6 hours may be taken from one department.</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Other policies and procedures regarding the international business major.</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">The 6-hours of 300/400-level language course work required for the major may <span class="basic-text-bold">not</span> be double counted toward the 12 hours of 300/400-level course work; however any ‘additional’ 300/400-level language course work taken, if pursuing a minor <span class="basic-text-bold">may</span> count toward the 12 hours of 300/400-level course work.</li>
					<li class="bullet-2">Do NOT confuse this ruling with permission to double count major/minor course work; this applies only to the 12 hours of 300/400-level elective course work requirement.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Students must complete 60 hours of business course work throughout their program. International business majors are permitted to count the 6 hours of language required for the major as part of their 60 hour requirement of business course work. </li>
					<li class="bullet-2">MOST majors are required to take one additional business course throughout their entire program to fulfill their business elective requirement. International business majors selecting non-business course work as part of their major (maximum of 6 hours) will need to take additional business electives (3-6 hours depending on how many hours they selected) to fulfill the 60 hour business course work requirement.</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
