<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Landscape_Architecture</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="landscape-architecture">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name">Landscape Architecture</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> College of Architecture</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Landscape Architecture</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Design (BSD) (end of two two-year segments); Professional Bachelor of Landscape Architecture (BLA) (end of the fifth year)</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 129 for BSD; 163 for BSD &amp; BLA</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Landscape Architecture</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Kim Wilson</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION </p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Director: Kim Wilson,</span> 302 Architecture Hall</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> McCallister, Sutton, Wilson</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Day, Rodie, Todd</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span> Rice</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chief Adviser:</span> Kim Wilson, kwilson4@unl.edu</p>				<p class="basic-text">The primary responsibility of the landscape architecture profession is the design and stewardship of the built and natural environments. Landscape architects, therefore, must be able to understand the process of nature and the impact human settlement has on these ecosystems. This requires professionals to manage storm water, select appropriate plant material, and anticipate human impact all with an eye on a sustainable future.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Landscape Architecture Program seeks to increase students’ curiosity capacity for critical thinking, collaborative skills, and creative potential in service to the environment and humanity. Specifically, the curriculum provides the background and means for the student to:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Analyze and understand the relationship between humanity and the natural world it inhabits</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Creatively explore the potential of interventions into the developed and underdeveloped environment</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Search out new problems and contribute to solutions through research and experimentation</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Participate in the community that makes decisions affecting the physical environment</p>				<p class="title-1">General</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Professional Program in Landscape Architecture is a five-year course of study. Students advance through three segments in the curriculum; the two-year pre-professional, two-year professional core leading to the award of the non-professional bachelor of science in design (BSD) degree, and the one-year exploratory segment culminating in the professional bachelor of landscape architecture degree (BLA).</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Landscape Architecture Program is a five-year course of study that has been subdivided into a two-year pre-professional, two-year para-professional, and a one-year professional degree unit. Students receive a bachelor of science in design (BSD) at the end of the two two-year segments and a professional bachelor of landscape architecture (BLA) at the end of the fifth year. At the end of the first two year pre-professional segment, students are required to apply for admission into the professional segment of the curriculum. This review involves an evaluation of the students academic record and a portfolio of their work during the preprofessional studies. The Landscape Architecture Program is a candidate program for accreditation. It is anticipated it will be granted for all students as soon as it is allowed under the rules of accreditation defined by the Landscape Architectural Accreditation Board (LAAB).</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students are required to take an array of courses in support of the core studio sequence in addition to the university’s general education courses. These courses include material in horticulture, architecture, planning, and engineering in addition to core landscape architecture classes. This curriculum exposes students to various issues facing the landscape architecture profession including plant material, soils, landscape ecology, construction issues, drainage, site circulation and issues created by urbanism. </p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>				<p class="title-1">Admission to the Landscape Architecture Program</p>				<p class="basic-text">After completion of the first two years of pre-landscape architecture studies, either within the College of Architecture or at another institution, students may apply for admission to the Architecture Program.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Pre-landscape architecture majors should apply for admission to the Professional Program in Landscape Architecture. Successful applicants will have their major changed from pre-landscape architecture to BSD-Landscape Architecture option.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Available teaching resources and space capacities limit enrollment to the third year of architectural studies; therefore enrollment limits are established each semester.</p>				<p class="title-2">Minimum Entrance Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">To be considered for admission to the Landscape Architecture Program, applicants must:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Be enrolled in the College of Architecture</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Be in good scholastic standing</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Have completed the 1st and 2nd year Pre-Landscape Architecture Program of study</p>				<p class="title-1">Other Admission Requirements</p>				<p class="title-2">Third-Year Admission Process</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. An application for admission may be completed by filling out the online application. The Program receives applications once a year in early February.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Applicants must submit a portfolio conforming to the defined criteria for the program applied for by the date posted at the completion of the spring semester.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Any applicant who has previously applied for admission and has not been accepted or who fails to enroll in the Professional Program in Architecture after an acceptance must reapply in the regular manner. Students may apply for admission to the Landscape Architecture Program only three times.</p>				<p class="title-3">Evaluation</p>				<p class="basic-text">A faculty committee of the program will carefully evaluate the applications for admission. The committee considers three elements in their evaluation; cumulative grade point average, a weighted grade point average, and the portfolio of student work. The weighted grade point average gives additional value to the applicant’s achievement in the required LARC prefix course or transfer equivalents in the pre-professional curriculum.</p>				<p class="title-3">Selection</p>				<p class="basic-text">Admission to the Landscape Architecture Program will be awarded to applicants who show the greatest professional potential and have demonstrated scholastic achievement. The faculty reserves the right to not fill all available spaces in the Professional Program in Landscape Architecture if it determines that the remaining applicants have not performed at an acceptable level.</p>				<p class="title-2">Admission to the 1-Year Bachelor of Landscape Architecture Program</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students from both inside and outside the program must apply to gain admission to the 1-year BLA degree program. Applications are available in October from the department office and are reviewed once a year in February.</p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">All applications for admission are subject to approval of the faculty. Enrollment shall be limited by the teaching resources and space capacities of the program. An enrollment quota is established prior to each admissions cycle.</span></p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the Professional Program are governed by the rules, procedures and policies established in the Landscape Architecture Program. These are published in the Student Guide or by official notification by the faculty.</p>				<p class="title-2">Minimum Entrance Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">To be considered for admission to the BLA Professional Program in Landscape Architecture, applicants must:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Have a 4-year degree from an accredited landscape program or its equivalent as determined by the program director</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Present a portfolio of design work</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Be in good scholastic standing</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Have a B average or its equivalent in past academic programs</li>				</ul>				<p class="basic-text">The faculty of the Landscape Architecture Program require a minimum TOEFL score of 550 or 213 computer-based or 79-80 Internet-based score for all international student applicants whose first language is not English.</p>				<p class="title-3">Evaluation</p>				<p class="basic-text">A portfolio of an applicant’s recent design work will be evaluated by the faculty of the Landscape Architecture Program and is considered to be a very important part of the application review process, along with the applicant’s educational profile, letters of recommendation (required for outside applicants only), transcripts, and application form.</p>				<p class="title-3">Selection</p>				<p class="basic-text">The limited number of spaces available each semester will be awarded to applicants who have displayed the highest abilities in a combination of scholastic achievement, design capability, and professional potential.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Admissions Committee reserves the right to reject applicants who, in its opinion, have not reached an acceptable level of design proficiency.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>				<p class="title-2">Pre-Landscape Architecture Curriculum</p>				<p class="basic-text">Completion of the Pre-Landscape Architecture Program curriculum is required for admission into the Professional Landscape Architecture Program (third year admission). The pre-landscape architecture curriculum can be referenced through the current listing of courses available in room 232 in Architecture Hall or the College Web site.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Minimum Grades</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students must earn at least a C (2.0) in all courses with an ARCH, IDES, or LARC prefix to earn credit toward their degree. Students will be required to retake all core required courses with a grade of C- or below, but will not be required to repeat courses that were taken as electives.</p>				<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>				<p class="basic-text">None of the required classes offered in the professional program are offered Pass/No Pass, but a maximum of 12 Pass/No Pass credit hours of humanities, social sciences, or open electives may be taken from departments outside the College of Architecture.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Courses taken outside the Architecture or Interior Design Programs to fulfill the upper level outside elective requirement at the 800 level or 900 level, with or without a 400-level counterpart, in a <span class="basic-text-bold">minor, collateral, or supporting area of work, </span>can be taken on a Pass/No Pass basis.</p>				<p class="title-2">GPA Requirements</p>				<p class="title-3">Pre-Professional Program, Architecture, Landscape Architecture and Interior Design</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the first year are required to maintain both a semester and cumulative grade point average at or above 2.0. The standard rises to a grade point average of 2.6 in the second year. Admission into the third year of both programs requires a cumulative grade point average of 2.6. The College places students who fail to meet these standards on academic probation.</p>				<p class="title-3">Third and Fourth Year, Interior Design and Landscape Architecture</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the third and fourth year of the BSD program are required to maintain a 2.6 cumulative grade point average to remain in good academic standing. The Program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>				<p class="title-1">Minors</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Landscape Architecture minor is administered through the College of Architecture’s Landscape Architecture program. </p>				<p class="basic-text">Students can earn a minor in landscape architecture by the completion of the following course work:</p>				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Core Requirements 10</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ARCH 240 History of Architecture 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HORT 200 Landscape &amp; Environmental Appreciation 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HORT 498 Topics in Landscape Architecture 1</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ARCH 360 Site Context Issues 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Elective Requirements 6-8</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">HORT 130 Intro to Horticulture Science (4 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">HORT 212 Landscape Plants I (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">HORT 214 Perennials (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">HORT 266 Intro to Landscape Design (4 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">HORT 339/ARCH 467 Planting Design (4 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">HORT 341/ARCH 468 Landscape Construction (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">HORT 469/ARCH 469 Senior Design (4 cr)</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students can earn a minor for any course of study defined by the faculty offering the courses related to the minor. This generally requires additional course work on top of that defined in the professional curriculum.</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>