<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Latin_American_Studies</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="latin-american-studies">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name">Latin American Studies</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Latin American Studies</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 125</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes–Chicano Studies; Latin American Studies</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> James Garza</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Faculty:</span> Ari (history/ethnic studies), Cantarero (community and regional planning), Carlo (psychology), Carranza (sociology/ethnic studies), Castro (English/ethnic studies), Ceballos (sociology), Garcia (curriculum and instruction), Garza (history/ethnic studies), Hagewen (sociology), Hames (anthropology and geography), Lopez (curriculum and instruction), Mason (agronomy), Montes (English/ethnic studies), Myers (State Museum/anthropology and geography), Nickel (modern languages and literatures), Osorio (veterinary science), Pereira (modern languages and literatures), Sanchez (anthropology and geography), Van Den Berg (economics), Wals (political science), Walters (agronomy)</p>				<p class="basic-text">Latino and Latin American Studies includes a major and minor in Latin American Studies and a minor in Chicano Studies.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The major and minor in Latin American Studies are designed to provide a sound basis for undergraduate students who intend to seek employment with governmental agencies and private enterprises with operations in Latin America, as well as those who decide to undertake graduate study in some academic discipline with emphasis in this area. The Chicano Studies minor focuses on people of Latin American origin or descent living in the U.S.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Many students who major in Latin American Studies carry a double major with Spanish, history, political science, economics, international studies, or international business, or have chosen to minor in one of those fields</p>				<p class="basic-text">The University of Nebraska–Lincoln and the University of Nebraska at Omaha are cooperating with the Latin American Studies major. UNO students may complete their course requirements by attending classes at UNL. UNL students may take courses offered at UNO to meet some requirements for a major in Latin American Studies. Please note that UNL residency requirements still apply. Students should check with their adviser for information on UNO equivalent courses or other courses that may apply to the Latin American Studies major. Associate Professor Lourdes Gouviea, Director of the Office of Latino and Latin American Studies at UNO, is the UNO campus coordinator for our Latin American Studies Program.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">To complete a major in Latin American Studies, a student is expected to take at least 33 credit hours as described below. All students should have reasonable fluency in either Spanish and/or Portuguese.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph">The major will include:</p>				<p class="title-3">A. <span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">At least 9 hours selected from the following courses:</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">LAMS 311 Representative Spanish-American Authors I (SPAN 311) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">LAMS 312 Representative Spanish-American Authors II (SPAN 312) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">LAMS 331 Latin American Civilization (SPAN 331) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">LAMS 459 Spanish-American Poetry (SPAN 459) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">LAMS 460 Spanish-American Novel (SPAN 460) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">LAMS 462 Spanish-American Short Story (SPAN 462) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">LAMS 470 Women Writers of Spanish America (SPAN 470) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">SPAN 203 Intensive Conversation (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">SPAN 300 Advanced Writing &amp; Reading for Comprehension (6 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">SPAN 303 Advanced Reading for Comprehension (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">SPAN 304 Advanced Writing (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">SPAN 305 Literary Analysis in Spanish (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">SPAN 317 Intro to Linguistics (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">SPAN 319 Spanish Phonetics (3 cr)</p>				<p class="title-3">B. <span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">Courses in at least three departments from the following:</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">AHIS 256 Latin American Art (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">AHIS 457 Colonial Art of Latin America (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 321 Intro to International Economics (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 322 Intro to Development Economics (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 323 The Economic Development of Latin America (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ETHN 171 Power &amp; Culture in Latin America (HIST 171) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ETHN 245D Chicana and/or Chicano Literature (ENGL 245D) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ETHN 350 Peoples &amp; Cultures of Native Latin America (ANTH 350) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ETHN 370 Colonial Mexico (HIST 370) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ETHN 371 Modern Mexico (HIST 371) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">GEOG 378 Geography of Latin America (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HIST 271 The Latin American Colonies (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HIST 272 The Latin American Republics (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HIST 372 Revolutions in 20th Century Latin America (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HIST 471 Latin America &amp; the Outside World (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HIST 473 Spanish-American Colonial Institutions (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HIST 475 History of Brazil (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MNGT 428 International Management (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MRKT 453 International Marketing (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">POLS 277 Latin American Politics (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">POLS 365 The United States &amp; Latin America (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TEAC 433 Comparative Education (3 cr)</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">C. Individualized Courses of Instruction.</span> A total of 9 hours of individualized course work may count towards the major, but no more than 6 hours of one particular course (i.e., LAMS 399 or LAMS 399H) will count toward the major.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">D. 3-6 hours Interdisciplinary Pro-seminar</span> 478/878 that is cross-listed in 7 departments at UNL (anthropology, educational psychology, geography, history, modern languages, political science and sociology).</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">E. Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required to submit to the undergraduate adviser a copy of the semester project completed for the Latin American Studies Pro-seminar. The course instructor will inform majors of the deadline for submission.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Results of participation in this assessment activity will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">18 hours: 6 in modern languages and literatures as in Group A courses under the major requirements, 12 in social sciences as in Group B and C courses under the major requirements above. No more than 3 credits of LAMS 399 will count toward the minor. Minors may not take LAMS 399H for credit.</li>				</ul>				<p class="header-paragraph">UNL and UNO are also jointly cooperating in our Latin American Studies minor. See discussion above.</p>				<p class="title-3">Requirements for the Minor in Chicano Studies</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">18 hours from the following courses <span class="basic-text-ital">(other courses may be used with the approval of the faculty adviser)</span>:</li>				</ul>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ETHN 171 Power &amp; Culture in Latin America (HIST 171) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ETHN 212 Intro to Cultural Anthropology (ANTH 212) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ETHN 217 Nationality &amp; Race Relations (SOCI 217) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ETHN 218 Chicanos in American Society (SOCI 218) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ETHN 245D Chicana and/or Chicano Literature (ENGL 245D) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ETHN 310 Psychology of Immigration (PSYC 310) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ETHN 330 Multicultural Education (TEAC 330) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ETHN 350 Peoples &amp; Cultures of Native Latin America (ANTH 350) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ETHN 357 History &amp; Culture of the Mexican-American (HIST 357) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ETHN 370 Colonial Mexico (HIST 370) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ETHN 371 Modern Mexico (HIST 371) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ETHN 481 Minority Groups (SOCI 481) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="end">###</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>