<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Mechanical_Engineering</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="mechanical-engineering">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Mechanical Engineering</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Mechanical Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 129</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">minimum cumulative gpa: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Jeffrey Shield</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Barton, Gogos, Lou, Reid, Robertson, Shield, To</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Cole, Farritor, Szydlowski, Zhang</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Gu, Huang, Nelson</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturers:</span><span class="generated-style"> Coen-Brown, Dick, Halvorsen</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Mechanical engineering is concerned with all forms of energy conversion and transmission; the flow of fluids and heat; the development, design, and operation of machinery and equipment, material structure and properties; and transportation processes. The course of study is designed to give the student fundamental preparation to enter the fields of research, design, operation, production, sales, or management.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department of Mechanical Engineering is structured into three major academic areas: thermal-fluid science engineering, systems and design engineering, and materials science engineering. From these three major areas, a student can develop an emphasis area of study by utilizing the various technical elective courses in the major academic areas or an emphasis area could be directed toward studies in aerospace engineering, automotive engineering, robotics, biomedical engineering, computational methods, and others depending upon the technical courses available and the interest of the student.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Mission and Objectives</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The mission of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Nebraska–Lincoln, is to provide quality educational programs for undergraduate and graduate students planning careers in mechanical engineering or allied fields; to create and disseminate knowledge through research, publication, and other scholarly activities; to engage in professional activities to promote the mechanical engineering profession; and, to provide support to enhance the economic well-being of the state and the nation.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Objectives.</span><span class="generated-style"> The undergraduate and graduate programs offered by the Department of Mechanical Engineering are intended to prepare students for successful careers and lifelong learning in mechanical engineering or allied fields in which the academic discipline serves as an educational base. Specifically, the program objectives of the Department are:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">to attract, develop, and retain a dedicated and competent faculty capable of fulfilling the mission of the Department in teaching, research, and service;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">to maintain, update, and improve an undergraduate program which is designed to prepare graduates for successful careers and lifelong learning. The program should have a solid base of physical and natural sciences, mathematics, social sciences and humanities, and communications. The curriculum should be broad-based with required courses in two stems of coherent course offerings in thermal and mechanical systems, including the design and realization of such systems;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">to provide educational opportunities to off-campus students and practicing engineers through extended education;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">to create and disseminate knowledge through research, publication, and other scholarly activities; and</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">to engage in professional activities to promote the mechanical engineering profession.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for the Degree (Lincoln campus)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">First Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 111 Chemistry for Engineering &amp; Technology 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 109 and 110 may be substituted for CHEM 111. Only 4 credits count toward graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 10 Freshmen Engineering Seminar 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Electives 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Second Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 150E Intro to Computer Programming for Scientists &amp; Engineers 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 130 Intro to CAD 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 221 General Physics Lab I 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Or, instead, PHYS 222 General Physics Lab II (1 cr) may be taken in the Third Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Third Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 223 Engineering Statics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 206 Engineering Economy I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fourth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 325 Mechanics of Elastic Bodies 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 373 Engineering Dynamics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 200 Engineering Thermodynamics 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">METL 360 Elements of Materials Science 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fifth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 211 Elements of Electrical Engineering I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 231 Electrical Engineering Lab 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 314 Applied Linear Algebra (Matrix Theory) 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 310 Fluid Mechanics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 342 Kinematics &amp; Dynamics of Machinery 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Communication Studies Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course from the following: COMM 210, COMM 283, or COMM 286 (ACE 2).</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Sixth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 321 Engineering Statistics &amp; Data Analysis </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> STAT 380 Statistics &amp; Applications 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 300 Thermal Systems &amp; Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 343 Elements of Machine Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 350 Intro to Dynamics &amp; Control of Engineering Systems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 380 Mechanical Engineering Measurements 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Seventh Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 370 Manufacturing Methods &amp; Processes 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 420 Heat Transfer 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 446 Mechanical Engineering Design I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">The capstone design sequence must be taken in the order shown in the curriculum and should be taken in the last two semesters of the program (MECH 446 and MECH 447).</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 488 Kinematics &amp; Machine Design Lab 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Mechanical Engineering Technical Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Design and technical electives must be chosen from a list of approved 400-level mechanical engineering elective courses. Consult adviser for suggested choices.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Eighth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 400 Professional Ethics 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 447 Mechanical Engineering Design II 43 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 487 Thermal Fluids Lab 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Mechanical Engineering Design Elective 44 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Senior Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Credit Hours Required 129</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Laboratories</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Brief descriptions of some of the laboratories in the department are given below.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Design, Modeling, Measurements, and Controls Laboratories.</span><span class="generated-style"> Several laboratories in these areas support the undergraduate and graduate work in mechanical system design, machinery dynamics, basic measurements, and mechanical system controls. The laboratories contain a wide variety of instrumentation equipment, bench models of control mechanisms and systems, analog computers for simulation studies, shaker system and dynamic recording equipment for machinery vibrations, microcomputers, and extensive areas for project activity.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Student and Staff Research Laboratories.</span><span class="generated-style"> These laboratories, extensions of those described above, are equipped for research in the fields of fluid mechanics, heat transfer, thermodynamics, turbulence, flow visualization, computational fluid mechanics, measurements, turbomachinery and engine research, combustion, metallurgy and corrosion, microcharacterization of materials, mechanical design, dynamics, and controls.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Materials Laboratories.</span><span class="generated-style"> Undergraduate facilities are available to support instruction in modern metallographic techniques, X-ray diffraction methods, mechanical testing of materials, materials processing, thermal analysis, heat treatment of ferrous and nonferrous materials, and the evaluation of materials-environment compatibility. Additional research facilities are available to advanced undergraduate and graduate students in the area of powder metallurgy, thin film structures, gas analysis and corrosion of metallic and nonmetallic materials, analytical electron microscopy, and the study of phase transformations in alloys.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Thermodynamics, Fluid Dynamics, and Heat Transfer Laboratories.</span><span class="generated-style"> These laboratories are equipped with a variety of facilities for demonstrating of and experimenting with the basic concepts of fluid flow and energy conversion. Available equipment includes wind tunnels, engines, turbines, pumps, compressors, a complete air-conditioning unit, heat exchangers, thermal radiation systems, and numerous fluid flow devices.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
