<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>News-Editorial</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="news-editorial">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name">News-Editorial</p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Journalism &amp; Mass Communications</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> News-Editorial</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Journalism</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 125</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Michael Goff</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION </p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Bender, Berens, Botts (emeritus), Kebbel, Norton (emeritus), Starita, Tuck (emeritus)</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> T. Anderson, Bullard, Frazell (emeritus), Kimbrough, Neal (emeritus), Pagel (emeritus), Quinlan, Thorson, Weber</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span> Winter</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The College of Journalism and Mass Communications has traditionally offered majors in both broadcasting and news-editorial journalism. Because of the changes in the journalism industries served by our students and graduates, however, we are in the process of combining those majors into one journalism major. This major will offer courses leading to a wide variety of careers in print, broadcasting and online journalism. </p>
				<p class="basic-text">The journalism curriculum, combined from the previous broadcasting and news-editorial programs, is built on intensive reporting and writing, and all students begin with the same foundation. All students are required to take courses in reporting and writing, copy editing, visual literacy, mass media law, contemporary issues in mass media and multimedia journalism. Elective choices include courses in magazine writing, depth reporting, feature writing, sports writing, business writing, science writing, photography, design, broadcast news writing, videography and advanced editing. Students may also choose an emphasis in broadcast production, in which they will enroll in courses in audio and video production.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Many of the journalism faculty members have extensive industry experience at such media organizations as The Wall Street Journal, The Miami Herald, The Detroit News, ABC News and The New York Times. The faculty continues to be connected to the industry, and its members are actively involved in professional media organizations. Students, likewise, are encouraged to further their professional goals through participation in student organizations such as the National Broadcasting Society, Alpha Epsilon Rho, the Society of Professional Journalists, the Radio-Television News Directors Association and the American Copy Editors Association.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Faculty members prepare students for the job market by combining class work with actual experience. The primary outlet for student journalism is NewsNetNebraska, the college’s student-produced website. In addition, students have the opportunity to work on a weekly television news broadcast, Star City News; KRNU, a professionally managed FM radio station; and regularly scheduled magazines, which publish the work of depth reporting and photography students.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The journalism program places a great deal of importance on professional internships, and students in recent years have worked at such media organizations as ABC News, The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Dallas Morning News, Fox News, The Omaha World-Herald, The Des Moines Register, The Norfolk Daily News and The Atlanta Constitution, as well as numerous other newspapers and local television stations. The college also has partnerships with two media organizations that offer paid internships during the school year in Lincoln:</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph">A<span class="header-paragraph-title">BC News on Campus. </span>The college has a bureau, staffed year-round with four or five students at a time, which provides articles, photographs and video packages to ABC News in New York. Student work has appeared on Good Morning America and World News Tonight, as well as several of ABC’s websites.</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">World-Herald Fellows. </span>The Omaha World-Herald, Nebraska’s largest newspaper, works with the college to teach a course called “The Real World” in which World-Herald staff members offer students insight into working for a newspaper. Each semester the World-Herald chooses four students to be “fellows,” and they work in the newspaper’s Lincoln bureau.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Additionally, journalism students achieve national recognition by successfully competing in such programs as the Hearst Journalism Awards, Sigma Delta Chi Awards, the Robert F. Kennedy Journalism Awards and the Society of Professional Journalists’ Mark of Excellence Awards. </p>
				<p class="basic-text">For the 2010-2011 academic year, the term “journalism” replaces the term “news-editorial,” and “broadcasting” continues to refer to both the news and production tracks in broadcasting.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">All courses previously shown as NEWS are now shown as JOUR; therefore, the familiar news-editorial major is identified as the journalism major.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The courses required for a 35-hour major in news-editorial journalism are as follows:</p>
				<p class="list">JOUR 101, JOUR 142, JOUR 162, JOUR 201, JOUR 202, JOUR 302, JOUR 350, JOUR 486, JOUR 487; and 3 hours from JOUR 303, JOUR 404 or a 400-level reporting course; and 6 elective hours.</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph">Students may complete two majors in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications by completing all requirements for each major; however, the second major in the college will not take the place of a 24-hour concentration</p>
				<p class="title-1">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements </p>
				<p class="basic-text">Three 12-hour concentrations or one 24-hour concentration and one 12-hour concentration. A specified minor may take the place of one 12-hour concentration. A major of 24 or more hours may take the place of a 24-hour concentration. Any of these options must be from outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications. The concentration requirement must be fulfilled with at least 36 hours from outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications. A 24-hour concentration could be satisfied by a major from another college. One of the three concentrations must be from a liberal arts department. See the degree audit for a list of the traditional liberal arts departments. Normally, concentrations are defined as a minimum of 12 hours taken from one department or a specified interdisciplinary program that does not have a designated minor. In each concentration, at least 6 hours must include courses numbered 200 or higher. The college additionally recognizes a 24-hour fine and performing arts concentration and a 12-hour business concentration. </p>
				<p class="title-2">Fine and Performing Arts Concentration</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Students in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications may complete a 24-hour interdisciplinary concentration in courses from the College of Fine and Performing Arts. This concentration would include classes in: 1) art and art history; 2) music; 3) theater and film; and 4) dance.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Students would select courses from the following:</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">A. One 3-hour course from each of the four areas 12</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">B. 3 hours of skills courses <span class="requirement-ital">(performance or lessons)</span> in one of the four areas 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">C. One 3-hour “capstone” course 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">D. Two 3-hour courses in one of the four areas 6</p>
				<p class="title-2">Course options for students:</p>
				<p class="title-3">I. Art &amp; Art History</p>
				<p class="list">AHIS 101 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism I (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="list">AHIS 102 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism II (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="list">DRAW 101 Beginning Drawing (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="list">CERM 131 Intro to Ceramics (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="list">PHOT 161 Beginning Photography I (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="list-indent">Art Studio 200-level courses: Prereq: Vis-Lit 140A,B &amp; 141A,B</p>
				<p class="list-indent">Art History 200-level courses: Prereq: Sophomore standing</p>
				<p class="list-indent">Art History 300-level courses: Prereq: AHIS 101 &amp; AHIS 102 </p>
				<p class="title-3">II. Theatre &amp; Film</p>
				<p class="list">THEA 112G Intro to Theatre (3 cr) </p>
				<p class="list">THEA 114 Basic Acting Techniques I (3 cr) </p>
				<p class="list">THEA 201 Technical Theatre Practice (3 cr) </p>
				<p class="list">THEA 234 Scripts in Performance (3 cr) </p>
				<p class="list">THEA 335 History of Theatre I (3 cr) Prereq: THEA 112G</p>
				<p class="list">THEA 336 History of Theatre II (3 cr) Prereq: THEA 112G</p>
				<p class="title-3">III. Music</p>
				<p class="list"><span class="requirement-underline">Academic Courses</span></p>
				<p class="list">MUNM 275 Music in Film (3 cr) </p>
				<p class="list">MUNM 276G The Music Experience (3 cr) </p>
				<p class="list">MUNM 287 The History of Rock Music (3 cr) </p>
				<p class="list">MUNM 387 History of American Jazz (3 cr) </p>
				<p class="list">MUNM 389 Arts of the 20th Century: 1945-Present (3 cr) </p>
				<p class="list"><span class="requirement-underline">Ensembles</span></p>
				<p class="list">MUNM 241 All-Collegiate Choir (1 cr) </p>
				<p class="list">MUNM 243 Varsity Chorus (1 cr) </p>
				<p class="list">MUNM 245 The University Singers (1 cr) </p>
				<p class="list">MUNM 246 University Chorale (1 cr) </p>
				<p class="list">MUNM 247 Symphony Orchestra (1 cr) </p>
				<p class="list">MUNM 248A Wind Ensemble (1 cr) </p>
				<p class="list">MUNM 248B Symphonic Band (1 cr) </p>
				<p class="list">MUNM 248E Marching Band (1 cr) </p>
				<p class="list">MUNM 249 Chamber Singers (1 cr)</p>
				<p class="list">MUNM 251 Big Red Singers (1 cr)</p>
				<p class="list">MUNM 253A Jazz Ensemble I (1 cr) </p>
				<p class="list">MUNM 253B Jazz Ensemble II (1 cr) </p>
				<p class="list">MUNM 253E Jazz Vocal Ensemble (1 cr) </p>
				<p class="title-3">IV. Dance</p>
				<p class="list">DANC 112 Modern Dance and Ballet I (3 cr) </p>
				<p class="list">DANC 159 Intro to the History of Dance (3 cr) </p>
				<p class="title-2">Business Concentration</p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="basic-text-bold">OPTION 1 – 12 hours</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text">Preparing students to understand more the business side of advertising, public relations and the various media. 12 hours total.</p>
				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Required:</span> ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting </p>
				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Required:</span> Business for Non-Business Majors course when developed</p>
				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Also:</span> 6 hours <span class="list-ital">(9 hours if Business for Non-business Majors course not available)</span> from any of the following:</p>
				<p class="list-indent">MRKT 341 Marketing</p>
				<p class="list-indent">MNGT 320 Principles of Management</p>
				<p class="list-indent">FINA 260 Personal Finance</p>
				<p class="list-indent">FINA 361 Finance </p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 365 Financial Institutions &amp; Markets</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 303 Intro to Money &amp; Banking</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 340 Intro to Urban-Regional Economics</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 416 Statistics for Decision-Making </p>
				<p class="list-indent">MRKT 350 Marketing Information Systems</p>
				<p class="list-indent">MRKT 425 Retail Management</p>
				<p class="list-indent">MRKT <span class="list-ital">(any marketing class although above are particularly useful)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent">ENTR <span class="list-ital">(any entrepreneurship class including ENTR 121)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent">AECN 225 Agribusiness &amp; Food Products Marketing</p>
				<p class="list-indent">AECN 325 Marketing of Agricultural Commodities</p>
				<p class="list-indent">AECN 471 Agricultural Marketing &amp; Product Development I</p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="faculty-list-bold">OPTION 2 – 15 hours</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text">Preparing students to be business journalists or to do financial public relations. 15 hours total. </p>
				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Required:</span> 3-hr capstone, JOUR 491 Business Reporting &amp; Writing <span class="list-ital">(or Business &amp; Economic Journalism)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Required:</span> Business for Non-Business Majors course when developed</p>
				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Also:</span> 9 hours <span class="list-ital">(12 hours if Business for Non-Business Majors course not available)</span> from at least two different departments:</p>
				<p class="list-indent">*ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting</p>
				<p class="list-indent">MNGT 320 Principles of Management</p>
				<p class="list-indent">*ECON 365 Financial Institutions &amp; Markets</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 371 Elements of Public Finance</p>
				<p class="list-indent">FINA 363 Investment Principles</p>
				<p class="list-indent">FINA 260 Personal Finance</p>
				<p class="list-indent">FINA 361 Finance</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ENTR 121 Intro to Entrepreneurial Management</p>
				<p class="list-indent">AECN 141 Intro to Economics of Agriculture</p>
				<p class="list-indent">AECN 225 Agribusiness &amp; Food Products Marketing</p>
				<p class="list-indent">AECN 265 Resources &amp; Environmental Economics</p>
				<p class="list-indent">AECN 325 Marketing of Agricultural Commodities</p>
				<p class="list-indent">AECN 346 World Food Economics</p>
				<p class="list-indent">AECN 367 Agricultural Development in Developing Countries</p>
				<p class="list-indent">AECN 376 Rural Community Economics</p>
				<p class="list-indent">AECN 420 International Food &amp; Agricultural Trade</p>
				<p class="list-indent">AECN 465 Resource &amp; Environmental Economics II</p>
				<p class="list-indent">AECN 452 Agricultural Finance</p>
				<p class="list-indent">AECN 471 Agricultural Marketing &amp; Product Development I</p>
				<p class="list-indent">AECN 472 Agricultural Marketing &amp; Product Development II</p>
				<p class="asterisk">* Highly recommended</p>
				<p class="title-3">Secondary options for ECON: </p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 303 Intro to Money and Banking</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 340 Intro to Urban-Regional Economics</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 381 Intro to Labor Economics</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 403 Money &amp; the Financial System</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 404 Current Issues </p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 409 Applied Public Policy Analysis</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 416 Statistics for Decision-Making </p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 417 Econometrics</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 419 Topics in Applied Research</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 457 19th Century U.S. Economic History</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 458 20th Century U.S. Economic History</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 481 Economics of the Labor Market</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 482 Labor in the National Economy</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 485 Government &amp; Labor</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
