<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Philosophy</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="philosophy">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name">Philosophy</p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Philosophy</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 125</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes–Philosophy</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Reina Hayaki, Harry Ide</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Joseph Mendola,</span> 1009 Oldfather Hall</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors: </span>Casullo, Henderson, Mendola, Potter, Sayward, Sobel, van Roojen</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Becker, Dowell, Gibbons, Hayaki, Ide, McKitrick</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span> Bronfman</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Philosophy is the critical study of the fundamental concepts and assumptions involved in all central areas of human experience, including religion, morality, science, and art. The department offers an introduction to philosophy course designed for the general student, as well as introductory courses in logic and current issues.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The basic philosophy curriculum includes courses in the <span class="basic-text-ital">history of philosophy</span> covering the period which begins with the development of rational inquiry by the philosophers of ancient Greece and which concludes with the construction of the modern philosophical systems of the Enlightenment as well as courses in each of the major fields of philosophical study: <span class="basic-text-ital">ethics</span>, which is concerned with the basis of morality; <span class="basic-text-ital">metaphysics</span>, which explores different views about what fundamentally exists; <span class="basic-text-ital">epistemology</span>, which examines the nature and limits of human knowledge; and <span class="basic-text-ital">logic</span>, which studies general methods of reasoned argument and analysis.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">A number of courses reflect the role of philosophy in investigating the fundamental concepts and assumptions of other disciplines, including courses in medical ethics, the philosophy of law, the philosophy of science, and the philosophy of mathematics.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Other courses focus on the role of philosophy in the critical analysis of basic evaluative conceptions and assumptions. Courses in political philosophy critically examine the evaluative concepts and assumptions involved in our beliefs about government, individual liberty, and social and economic justice. Courses in the philosophy of religion do the same for beliefs about the nature and existence of God and about the relations between faith and knowledge.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The department also offers courses in <span class="basic-text-ital">aesthetics</span>, the philosophical study of art, music, and literature understood as fundamental forms of human culture and significant expressions of the human spirit.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The interdisciplinary character of philosophy, together with its focus on evaluative issues and its unique emphasis on general methods of reasoned argument and analysis, leads to an unusually broad and intellectually sound major for students preparing themselves for such professions as law, medicine, social work, government service, and the ministry. The philosophy major is indispensable for those who wish to prepare for a career as a philosopher within a college or university setting.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Students interested in majoring in philosophy or in selecting philosophy courses specially relevant to their studies are invited to visit with the chief adviser for the department or the department chair.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text">All prospective majors must consult and register with the departmental chief adviser.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">1. A minimum of 30 hours of philosophy, with at least 24 hours in courses numbered 200 or above, and at least 12 hours in courses numbered 300 or above;</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">2. PHIL 400;</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">3. At least one of the following courses: </p>
				<p class="list-indent">PHIL 110 Intro to Logic &amp; Critical Thinking </p>
				<p class="list-indent">PHIL 211 Intro to Modern Logic; and</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">4. At least three of the following courses:</p>
				<p class="list-indent">PHIL 231 History of Philosophy (Ancient)</p>
				<p class="list-indent">PHIL 232 History of Philosophy (Modern)</p>
				<p class="list-indent">PHIL 301 Theory of Knowledge</p>
				<p class="list-indent">PHIL 302 Intro to Metaphysics</p>
				<p class="list-indent">PHIL 320 Ethical Theory</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required to complete an annual survey in the spring semester.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Results of participation in this assessment activity will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</p>
				<p class="basic-text">There are no prerequisites for courses below the 300 level. The prerequisites for courses at the 300 level are 3 hours or permission, unless otherwise stated. The prerequisites for courses at the 400 level are 9 hours of philosophy or permission, unless otherwise stated.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Independent study courses (PHIL 299 and PHIL 399) must be antecedently approved by a Department of Philosophy undergraduate adviser if they are to count toward satisfying the major requirements. </p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">1. A minimum of 15 hours in philosophy, with at least 12 hours in courses numbered 200 or above, and at least 6 hours in courses numbered 300 or above;</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">2. At least two of the following courses:</p>
				<p class="list-indent">PHIL 211 Intro to Modern Logic</p>
				<p class="list-indent">PHIL 231 History of Philosophy (Ancient) </p>
				<p class="list-indent">PHIL 232. History of Philosophy (Modern)</p>
				<p class="list-indent">PHIL 301 Theory of Knowledge</p>
				<p class="list-indent">PHIL 302 Intro to Metaphysics</p>
				<p class="list-indent">PHIL 320 Ethical Theory</p>
				<p class="end">###</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
