<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Physics</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="physics">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name">Physics</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Physics </p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 125</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes–Physics</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Herman Batelaan</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Daniel R. Claes,</span> 208 Jorgensen Hall</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Vice Chair:</span> Stephen Ducharme, 208 Jorgensen Hall</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Claes, Dowben, Ducharme, Fabrikant, Gay, Kirby, Liou, Schmidt, Sellmyer, Snow, Starace, Tsymbal, Umstadter</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Adenwalla, Batelaan, Gruverman</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Belashchenko, Binek, Bloom, Dominguez, Enders, Kravchenko, Shadwick, Uiterwaal</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Research Associate Professors:</span> Bettis, Lee</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturer:</span> Yenen</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Department of Physics offers programs leading to the bachelor of arts and bachelor of science degrees. Students preparing for either graduate study or a professional career in physics should pursue the bachelor of science degree (Professional Track described below). For students who have special interests, the Department offers additional tracks in astronomy, optics and lasers, materials physics, and computational physics. The interdisciplinary bachelor of science degree in the area of engineering physics is offered through the College of Engineering.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The courses required for the bachelor of arts degree in physics offer a broader program in science and the liberal arts suitable for a variety of preprofessional curricula and for interdisciplinary studies in areas including biophysics, chemical physics, and geophysics. Students in this degree program should select elective courses in consultation with their advisers.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Further details concerning the Department’s undergraduate programs are given on the Departmental Web page, http://physics.unl.edu/. See the Department’s chief undergraduate adviser, Associate Professor Herman Batelaan, 208 Jorgensen Hall.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> The advanced degrees of master of science and doctor of philosophy are offered. For details of these programs, see the <span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span>.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Core Requirements</p>				<p class="title-2">Core Courses for the BS Degree (52 hrs)</p>				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-ital">The following required courses are listed in the recommended sequence.</span></p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 201H Modern Topics in Physics &amp; Astronomy (1 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I (5 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 211 General Physics I (4 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 221 General Physics Lab I (1 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II (5 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 212 General Physics II (4 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 222 General Physics Lab II (1 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">CHEM 113 Fundamental Chemistry I (4 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III (4 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 213 General Physics III (4 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 223 General Physics Lab III (1 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">MATH 221 Differential Equations (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 231 Electrical &amp; Electronic Circuits (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 311 Mechanics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 431 Thermal Physics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 451 Electromagnetic Theory (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 461 Quantum Mechanics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="title-2">Core Courses for the BA Degree (37 hrs)</p>				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-ital">The following required courses are listed in the recommended sequence.</span></p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 201H Modern Topics in Physics &amp; Astronomy (1 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I (5 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 211 General Physics I <span class="requirement-ital">(preferred)</span> (4 hr) &amp; PHYS 221 General Physics Lab I <span class="requirement-ital">(preferred)</span> (1 hr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> PHYS 141 Elementary General Physics I (5 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II (5 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">CHEM 113 Fundamental Chemistry I <span class="requirement-ital">(preferred)</span> <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 111 Chemistry for Engineering &amp; Technology <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 109 General Chemistry I (4)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 212 General Physics II <span class="requirement-ital">(preferred)</span> (4 hr) &amp; PHYS 222 General Physics Laboratory II <span class="requirement-ital">(preferred)</span> (1 hr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> PHYS 142 Elementary General Physics II (5 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III (4 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 213 General Physics III (4 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 223 General Physics Lab III (1 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">MATH 221 Differential Equations (3 hr)</p>				<p class="title-1">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>				<p class="title-2">Standard Track – BA ONLY<span class="basic-text-bold"> </span>(24 hrs)</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Standard Track is designed for students pursuing careers for which the knowledge and methodology of physics are essential. <span class="basic-text-ital">The following required courses are listed in the recommended sequence.</span> </p>				<p class="list">PHYS 231 Electrical &amp; Electronic Circuits (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 311 Mechanics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 361 Concepts of Modern Physics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 441 Experimental Physics I (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list"><span class="list-ital">In addition, at least 6 hours must be taken from the following courses (6 hr)</span></p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 343 Physics of Lasers &amp; Modern Optics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 391 Undergraduate Research (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 451 Electromagnetic Theory (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 461 Quantum Mechanics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 431 Thermal Physics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 480 Intro to Lasers &amp; Laser Applications (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list"><span class="list-ital">In addition, at least 6 hours must be taken at the 300- or 400-level in mathematics, statistics, engineering, or science (including physics) (6 hr)</span></p>				<p class="title-2">I. Professional Track – BS ONLY (18 hrs)</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Professional Track is designed for students intending to pursue graduate study or employment in physics or a related scientific or engineering discipline. <span class="basic-text-ital">The following required courses are listed in the recommended sequence.</span></p>				<p class="list">PHYS 441 Experimental Physics I (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 442 Experimental Physics II (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 452 Optics &amp; Electromagnetic Waves (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 462 Atoms, Nuclei &amp; Elementary Particles (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list"><span class="list-ital">In addition, at least 6 hours must be taken from the following courses (6 hr)</span></p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 343 Physics of Lasers &amp; Modern Optics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 361 Concepts of Modern Physics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 391 Undergraduate Research (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 401 Computational Physics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 422 Intro to the Physics &amp; Chemistry of Solids (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 443 Experimental Physics III (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 480 Intro to Lasers &amp; Laser Applications (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">MATH 314 Applied Linear Algebra (Matrix Theory hr) <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> MATH 324 Intro to Partial Differential Equations (3 hr)</p>				<p class="title-2">II. Astronomy Track – BS ONLY (19 hrs)</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Astronomy Track is designed for students intending to pursue graduate study or employment in astronomy or astrophysics. <span class="basic-text-ital">The following required courses are listed in the recommended sequence.</span> </p>				<p class="list">ASTR 204 Intro to Astronomy &amp; Astrophysics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list">ASTR 224 Astronomy &amp; Astrophysics Lab (1 hr)</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 452 Optics &amp; Electromagnetic Waves (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list"><span class="list-ital">In addition, at least 9 hours must be taken from 400-level astronomy courses (9 hr)</span></p>				<p class="list"><span class="list-ital">In addition, at least 3 hours must be taken from the following courses (3 hr)</span></p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 391 Undergraduate Research<span class="list-ital"> (Up to 3 hours of PHYS 391 may be counted towards these 3 hours by substitution, provided that the research project is approved by the Chief Adviser.)</span></p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 343 Physics of Lasers &amp; Modern Optics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 361 Concepts of Modern Physics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 401 Computational Physics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 422 Intro to the Physics &amp; Chemistry of Solids (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 441 Experimental Physics I (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 462 Atoms, Nuclei &amp; Elementary Particles (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 480 Intro to Lasers &amp; Laser Applications (3 hr)</p>				<p class="title-2">III. Optics and Lasers Track – BS ONLY (18 hrs)</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Optics and Lasers Track is designed for students intending to pursue graduate study or employment in optical or laser physics or in related engineering disciplines. <span class="basic-text-ital">The following required courses are listed in the recommended sequence. </span></p>				<p class="list">PHYS 343 Physics of Lasers &amp; Modern Optics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 441 Experimental Physics I (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 452 Optics &amp; Electromagnetic Waves (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 480 Intro to Lasers &amp; Laser Applications (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list"><span class="list-ital">In addition, at least 6 hours must be taken from the following courses (6 hr)</span></p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 391 Undergraduate Research <span class="list-ital">(Up to 3 hours of PHYS 391 may be counted toward these 6 hours by substitution, provided that the research project is approved by the Chief Adviser.)</span></p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 361 Concepts of Modern Physics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 401 Computational Physics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 422 Intro to the Physics &amp; Chemistry of Solids (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 442 Experimental Physics II (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 462 Atoms, Nuclei &amp; Elementary Particles (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">MATH 314 Applied Linear Algebra (Matrix Theory) or MATH 324 Intro to Partial Differential Equations (3 hr)</p>				<p class="title-2">IV. Materials Physics Track – BS ONLY (18 hrs)</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Materials Physics Track (for the physics B.S.) is designed for students intending to pursue graduate study or employment in Materials Physics or in related disciplines. <span class="basic-text-ital">The following required courses are listed in the recommended sequence.</span> </p>				<p class="list">CHEM 114 Fundamental Chemistry II (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list">CHEM 116 Quantitative Chemistry Lab (2 hr)</p>				<p class="list">METL 360 Elements of Materials Sciences w/Lab (4 hr)</p>				<p class="list">METL 462 X-ray Diffraction <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> METL 471 Electron Microscopy of Materials (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 422 I Intro to the Physics &amp; Chemistry of Solids (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list"><span class="list-ital">In addition, at least 3 hours must be taken from the following courses (3 hr)</span></p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 391 Undergraduate Research <span class="list-ital">(Up to 3 hours of PHYS 391 may be counted toward these 3 hours by substitution, provided that the research project is approved by the Chief Adviser.) </span></p>				<p class="list-indent">CHEM 261 Organic Chemistry (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">CHEM 481 Physical Chemistry I (4 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">ELEC 216 Electronics &amp; Circuits II (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 401 Computational Physics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="title-2">V. Computational Physics Track – BS ONLY (18 hr)</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Computational Physics Track (for the physics B.S.) is designed for students intending to pursue graduate study or employment in Computational Physics or in related disciplines. <span class="basic-text-ital">The following required courses are listed in the recommended sequence. </span></p>				<p class="list">CSCE 155 Computer Science I (4 hr)</p>				<p class="list">CSCE 156 Computer Science II (4 hr)</p>				<p class="list">CSCE 251 UNIX Programming Environment (1 hr) <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> CSCE 252A FORTRAN Programming (1 hr)</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 401 Computational Physics (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list"><span class="list-ital">In addition, at least 6 hours must be taken from the following courses (6 hr)</span></p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 391 Undergraduate Research <span class="list-ital">(Up to 3 hours of PHYS 391 may be counted toward these 6 hours by substitution, provided that the research project is approved by the Chief Adviser.)</span></p>				<p class="list-indent">CSCE 235 Intro to Discrete Structures (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">CSCE 310 Data Structures &amp; Algorithms (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">CSCE 340 Numerical Analysis I (3 hr)</p>				<p class="list-indent">CSCE 456 Parallel Programming (3 hr)</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Grade Rules </p>				<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students majoring in physics may not take any course from the list of core courses or from the list of track courses for Pass/No Pass credit. Students who are getting a minor in physics may not take any courses listed as requirements for the Plan A or Plan B minors for Pass/No Pass credit.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>				<p class="title-3">Plan AI. (19 cr)</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 201H</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 211, PHYS 221, PHYS 212, PHYS 222 <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> PHYS 141, PHYS 142</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 213</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 223</p>				<p class="list">Plus 3 additional hours chosen from physics courses listed as requirements for the major in physics. </p>				<p class="title-3">Plan AII. (22 cr)</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 201H</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 211, PHYS 221, PHYS 212, PHYS 222 <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> PHYS 141, PHYS 142</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 213</p>				<p class="list">ASTR 204</p>				<p class="list">ASTR 224</p>				<p class="list">Plus one course from ASTR 403, ASTR 404, ASTR 405, ASTR 407.</p>				<p class="title-3">Plan BI. (15 cr)</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 201H</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 211, PHYS 221, PHYS 212, PHYS 222 <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> PHYS 141, PHYS 142</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 213</p>				<p class="title-3">Plan BII. (15 cr)</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 201H</p>				<p class="list">PHYS 211, PHYS 221, PHYS 212, PHYS 222 <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> PHYS 141, PHYS 142</p>				<p class="list">ASTR 204</p>				<p class="list">ASTR 224</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Pass/No Pass.</span> Students majoring in physics may not take any course from the list of core courses or from the list of track courses for Pass/No Pass credit. Students who are getting a minor in physics may not take any courses listed as requirements for the Plan A or Plan B minors for Pass/No Pass credit.</p>				<p class="end">###</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>