<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Spanish</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="spanish">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name">Spanish</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> College of Arts &amp; Sciences</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Spanish</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 125</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span></p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes–Spanish</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Lola Lorenzo</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Russell Ganim,</span> 1111 Oldfather Hall</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Vice Chair:</span> Radha Balasubramanian</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Carr, Fouletier-Smith, Ganim, E. Jacobson, M. Jacobson, Olds, Stump, Turner</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors: </span>Balasubramanian, Brantner, Gonzáles, Hayden-Roy, Mejias-Bikandi, Nickel, Pereira, Saskova-Pierce, Shirer, Wilhelmsen</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Amano, González-Allende, Guevara, Kalisa, Ran</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Department of Modern Languages and Literatures offers courses in German, Japanese, the Romance Language group (French, Spanish), and the Slavic group (Czech, Russian). Whenever possible, the courses are conducted in the language that is studied. The aim of instruction is reading, writing, aural and oral proficiency, and an understanding of the life, literature, and culture of the country. Lectures and films in the language studied are offered during the school year for the benefit of the students in the department. Language laboratories supplement class work.</p>				<p class="title-2">Placement</p>				<p class="basic-text">Incoming students who wish to enter the University’s language program in French, Spanish, and German are required to take the Computer Assisted Placement Examination (CAPE). The results of the placement exam, together with training in a secondary school university, or other prior second language environments, will assist students in finding the level at which they will have the greatest opportunity for success. The examination results will be used in combination with advising to determine appropriate placement in the sequence of courses offered within the department’s curriculum. CAPE is administered in the language laboratory (302 Burnett Hall). Those students exempted from this requirement are expected to enroll in a first semester elementary course (101). Students qualifying for this exemption are defined as follows:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1.Students with no previous second language exposure whatsoever.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Students whose second language exposure amounts to one year or less at the U.S. high school level.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Students who wish to begin study of a new language other than those previously studied.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph">For other languages, placement is generally determined by the following criteria for students who come to the University with:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. 1 semester of a language in high school should take 101 (same language or a new one);</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. 2 or 3 semesters in high school should take 102 (same language);</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. 4 or 5 semesters in high school should take 201;</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. 6 semesters in high school should take 202;</p>				<p class="numbered-list">5. 8 semesters or more in high school should take 203.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The department participates in the following interdisciplinary study programs: European Studies, Institute for Ethnic Studies, International Studies, Judaic Studies, Latin American Studies, Medieval and Renaissance Studies, and Women’s and Gender Studies. See the index for a guide to these programs.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students may receive full credit at the University of Nebraska for study abroad programs in many countries, among these are Costa Rica, France, Germany, Spain, Mexico, Russia, Japan, and the Czech Republic. See the index for a guide to these programs.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Auditing.</span> Audits are allowed in 101 in French, German and Spanish only upon recommendation of the Modern Language Placement Advisers. Otherwise no audits are allowed in 100- and 200-level classes.</p>				<p class="title-2">Literature in Translation</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Department offers the following literature in translation courses for which no knowledge of a foreign language is necessary. Check the Schedule of Classes to determine which are being taught in any given semester: MODL 234D Major Themes in World Literature; 298/398 Special Topics; 470 Introduction to Literary Criticism; FREN and GERM 282 Literature in Translation; 264-265 Spanish-American Literature in Translation; MODL 442/GERM 442/842 Survey of Medieval German Literature in Translation and RUSS 482, RUSS 483.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> The advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy are offered in French, German, and Spanish. For details, see the <span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span>.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required to assemble a portfolio. A faculty adviser will inform students of the required contents of the portfolio, deadlines and procedures. During their last semester, Spanish majors will be required to provide oral and written materials for their portfolios.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Results of participation in this assessment activity will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</p>				<p class="title-1">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Department of Modern Languages offers a major in Spanish with two areas of concentration:</p>				<p class="title-3">1. Literature and Hispanic Culture</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">24 hours of courses numbered at 305 or above. In addition to 305, students choose 3 hours from 317, 319; 3 hours from 321, 331; 6 hours from 311, 312, 314, 315; and 9 hours at the 400 level (all hours at the 400 level must be in literature courses).</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-3">2. Language and Hispanic Culture</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">24 hours of courses numbered at 305 or above. Students must take 305, 317 and 319. In addition, students choose 3 hours from 321, 331; 3 hours from 311, 312, 314, 315; and 9 hours at the 400 level (at least 6 hours at the 400 level must be in language or linguistics courses).</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-1">Minor Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">A minor is required and may be taken in any area.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Grade Rules </p>				<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>				<p class="basic-text">No courses in the department may be taken by students majoring or minoring in modern languages for Pass/No Pass credit.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A.</span> 12 hours of courses numbered at 305 or above. In addition to 305 (which is compulsory for Plan A), 6 hours from 311 and 312, 314, 315; and 3 hours from 317, 319, 321 or 331.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan B.</span> 6 hours from 305, 317, 319, 321, or 331.</p>				<p class="end">###</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>