<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Textile_Science</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="textile-science">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name">Textile Science</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEPARTMENT:</span> Textiles, Clothing &amp; Design</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span> Textile Science</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 </p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Judy Hofeldt </p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>				<p class="basic-text">The textile science option emphasizes textiles, textile production, and issues concerning the global textile industry. Professional support in related sciences and business is required. The program is planned for students interested in sales, research, or management in the textile industry. It is also recommended for students who plan to go on to graduate school in either textile or related sciences. <span class="basic-text-bold">Students are eligible to receive a minor in chemistry from the UNL College of Arts and Sciences. </span></p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-2">Core Requirements </p>				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Introductory Courses 18</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TXCD 123 Clothing &amp; Human Behavior 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TXCD 143 Visual Literacy: Art &amp; Design 2</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TXCD 206 Textiles 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TXCD 212 Product Development I: Apparel Analysis &amp; Development 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TXCD 213 Merchandising I: Textile &amp; Apparel Industry 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TXCD 141A Visual Literacy Lab: Color 2</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TXCD141B Visual Literacy Lab: Speculative Drawing 2</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Common Completion Courses 14</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TXCD 405 Advanced Textiles 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TXCD 408 History of Textiles 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TXCD 410 Socio-Psychological Aspects of Clothing 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TXCD 412 Product Development III: Trend Analysis &amp; Product Conceptualization 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TXCD 498 Internship <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> TXCD 492 Professional Study Tour–International or Domestic <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> both 2</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Supporting Courses 26-29</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">AHIS 101 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism I 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">AHIS 102 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism II 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 109 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 113 4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF 280 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CYAF 160 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CEHS 200 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 211 &amp; ECON 212 (6 cr) &amp; PSYC 181 (4 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> SOCI 101 9-10</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 101, MATH 103, MATH 104, MATH 106, MATH 203 (3 cr), MATH 107 (5 cr) 3-5</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">LIBR 110 1 </p>				<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements </p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Textile Science Specialization 15</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TXCD 406 Textile Testing &amp; Evaluation 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TXCD 428 Coloration 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TXCD 499 Undergraduate Research 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 6 hours from the following:</span> 6</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">TXCD 140A, TXCD 140B, TXCD 216, TXCD 225, TXCD 313, TXCD 325, TXCD 407, TXCD 492, TXCD 498</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Professional Supporting Courses 22-25</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 110 or CHEM 114 3-4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 116 or CHEM 221 2-4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 251 or CHEM 261 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 252 or CHEM 262 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 253 or CHEM 263 Lab 1</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 254 or CHEM 264 Lab 1</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">STAT 218 or EDPS 459 or ECON 215 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 6 hrs from any of the following areas:</span> 6</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">Accounting, business law, chemistry, computer science, economics, entrepreneurship, finance, mathematics, management information systems &amp; technology, management, physics, marketing.</p>				<p class="title-1">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Optional Entrepreneurship Emphasis 18</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TXCD 123 Clothing &amp; Human Behavior 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MRKT 341 Marketing 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 9 hrs from the following:</span> 9</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTR 321/MNGT 321, ENTR 421/MNGT 421, ENTR 422/MNGT 422, ENTR 423/MNGT 423, or BSAD 491</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Optional Hospitality, Restaurant and Tourism Management Emphasis 15</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HRTM 171 Intro to Hospitality, Restaurant, and Tourism Management 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HRTM 285 Intro to the Lodging Industry 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HRTM 289 Intro to the Event Industry 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 6 hours from:</span> 6</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 280, HRTM 373, HRTM 374, HRTM 489, HRTM 474, HRTM 478, HRTM 479</p>				<p class="title-1">Minor Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">Minors may also be taken in International Studies or in Women’s and Gender Studies. The student should see their adviser for more information.</p>				<p class="title-1">Electives</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Free Electives 19-25</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</p>				<p class="header-paragraph">Please note the following department specific requirements:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. No required course work in the textiles, clothing and design department can be taken Pass/No Pass by textiles, clothing and design majors. Should a student have earned a P in one of the courses prior to starting the option, the P will be reviewed.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Substitution and waiver forms must be processed prior to the semester of graduation and must be processed prior to enrolling in the substituted course. All course prerequisites must be met prior to enrollment.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. All students are required to participate in either an internship or study tour experience, or both, during their program. Textiles, clothing and design majors have the opportunity to study abroad at institutions such as the American Intercontinental University in London, for both the summer and semester study abroad programs.</p>				<p class="end">###</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>