<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Architecture Main Page 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="architecture-main-page-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Architecture</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
<p class="content-box-m-p">ADMISSION</p>
<p class="title-1">Admission to the College of Architecture</p>
<p class="basic-text">Admission to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln does not constitute admission to the College of Architecture. Students seeking enrollment in the College of Architecture should indicate their desire by marking the proper major code on the University application form.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Freshmen and transfer students applying for admission to the pre-architecture, pre-interior design, and pre-landscape architecture program must submit complete admission application materials by May 1 for fall admission and December 1 for spring admission. These admission procedures apply to high school students seeking admission, as well as transfer students, international students, and also those transferring from UNO and UNK to UNL.</p>
<p class="title-2"><strong>High School Standards Pre-Architecture, Pre-Interior Design, and Pre-Landscape Architecture Programs</strong></p>
<p class="basic-text">Prospective students interested in the Professional Program in Architecture are eligible to apply for admission into the pre-architecture major if their high school records meet the following standards:</p>
<p class="list">1. Mathematics–4 units of Algebra I, II, geometry, and one-half unit of trigonometry, and one-half unit that builds on a knowledge of algebra or pre-calculus.</p>
<p class="list">2. English–4 units of intensive reading and writing.</p>
<p class="list">3. Social Studies–3 units. At least one unit of American and/or world history and one additional unit of history, American government, and/or geography.</p>
<p class="list">4. Natural Science–3 units. At least two of the three units selected from biology, chemistry, physics, and earth sciences. One of the units must include a laboratory.</p>
<p class="list">5. Foreign Language–2 units.</p>
<p class="title-2"><strong>Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies</strong></p>
<p class="basic-text">Because admission requirements establish the level of knowledge and skills which are needed for a student to succeed at UNL, students who are admitted with core course deficiencies in foreign language and geometry are expected to quickly remove them. Deficiencies must be removed before a student is eligible for graduation.</p>
<p class="title-2">General Admission Requirements for the College of Architecture</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to the high school admission requirements, the College of Architecture has established the following general admission requirements for all undergraduate students.</p>
<p class="title-3">New freshman students must:</p>
<ul>
<li>Graduate in the upper quartile of their high school class, or</li>
<li>Have an enhanced ACT composite score of 22, or</li>
<li>Have a combined SAT verbal and math total of at least 1030 enhanced, or</li>
<li>Receive permission from the program director with a waiver from the above requirements.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-3">New international freshman students must:</p>
<ul>
<li>Meet UNL entrance requirements for new international freshman students, and</li>
<li>Have a MELAB score of at least 80 or a minimum TOEFL score of 550, or computer-based score of 213 or 79-80 Internet-based.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-3">New transfer students must:</p>
<ul>
<li>Have a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA for architecture, landscape architecture, and interior design and be in good scholastic standing.</li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="no-style-override"> </span>New transfer students must comply with new freshman student entrance requirements if they have completed less than 12 credit hours of college study.</p>
<p class="title-3">New international transfer students must:</p>
<ul>
<li>Meet UNL entrance requirements for international transfer students</li>
<li>Have a MELAB score of at least 80 or a minimum TOEFL score of 550, or computer-based score of 213, or Internet-based score of 79-80</li>
<li>Have a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA and be in good scholastic standing</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-3">Students who transfer into the College of Architecture from other colleges at UNL must:</p>
<ul>
<li>Have a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA for architecture, landscape architecture, and interior design and be in good scholastic standing. Students transferring from UNO and UNK are included in the new transfer student category.</li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span> New transfer students must comply with new freshman student entrance requirements if they have completed less than 12 credit hours of college study.</p>
<p class="title-2">Readmission</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who apply for readmission to the College of Architecture must have a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA for architecture, landscape architecture and interior design, be in good scholastic standing, and receive permission from the dean of the College.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Former students who withdraw after being admitted to the College, or who have been academically suspended and wish to be readmitted must: a) be readmitted to the College in good scholastic standing, and b) be in good scholastic standing in accordance with the program standards and receive permission from the program director. Applicants for readmission will compete for spaces available with all other admission applicants.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">ADVISING</p>
<p class="title-1">Academic Advising</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Architecture is committed to providing effective advising services to students as an essential component of their educational experience.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in the pre-architecture, pre-landscape architecture, and pre-interior design programs are assigned to a staff adviser. These advisers are located in the program office to afford students easy access to information and to the program directors should this be necessary or desirable.</p>
<p class="basic-text">After admission into their respective professional program, students are assigned a faculty adviser. This person serves as an important resource for questions about the professions, their future careers, and their academic plans and progress. Students are encouraged to regularly consult with their adviser and are responsible for initiating advising contacts and preparing for advising sessions. Students must consult with their adviser prior to registering for classes. Failure to do so may result in removal from classes. Ultimately, students are themselves responsible for fulfilling all the requirements of the curriculum in which they are enrolled. The intellectual mentoring relationship between academic adviser and student is protected by confidentiality and strengthened by listening with understanding to student concerns.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The program office houses student records and the staff is helpful in checking on degree requirements and University procedures and policies.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The program office provides information for prospective and entering students who are seeking admission to the College of Architecture.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</p>
<p class="title-1">Academic Load</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in the bachelor of science in design (BSD) degree program must be enrolled in 12 credit hours of course work to be classified as a full time student. Students in the master of architecture degree program must be enrolled in 9 credit hours of course work to be classified as a full time student. Students participating in one of the program’s education abroad programs enrolled in less than the credit hours specified above may also be classified as full time students with permission of the director.</p>
<p class="basic-text">BSD students must obtain permission from the program director to enroll in more than 17 credit hours prior to the start of the semester. Students in the MArch program must obtain similar permission to exceed 15 credit hours.</p>
<p class="title-2">Employment and Course Load Guidelines</p>
<p class="basic-text">The architecture, interior design, and landscape architecture programs are demanding disciplines requiring significant commitment to succeed. For this reason, the college has adopted a policy recommending students who are employed to not exceed the following registration guidelines:</p>
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<td>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Work load per week</span></p>
</td>
<td>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Course load per semester</span></p>
</td>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>
<p class="basic-text basic-text-override"><span class="no-style-override-2">0 hours</span></p>
</td>
<td>
<p class="basic-text basic-text-override"><span class="no-style-override-2">up to 18 credit hours</span></p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<p class="basic-text basic-text-override"><span class="no-style-override-2">8-16 hours</span></p>
</td>
<td>
<p class="basic-text basic-text-override"><span class="no-style-override-2">13-16 credit hours</span></p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<p class="basic-text basic-text-override"><span class="no-style-override-2">17-20 hours</span></p>
</td>
<td>
<p class="basic-text basic-text-override"><span class="no-style-override-2">10-12 credit hours</span></p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
<p class="basic-text basic-text-override"><span class="no-style-override-2">Full time</span></p>
</td>
<td>
<p class="basic-text basic-text-override"><span class="no-style-override-2">up to 6 cr hours</span></p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p class="basic-text">Professional students holding teaching or research assistantships are required to be enrolled as a student in the professional program and their course load cannot exceed 12 credit hours per semester. Students holding these positions are prohibited from engaging in any other form of remunerative employment without the permission of the program director.</p>
<p class="title-1">Course Exclusions &amp; Restrictions</p>
<p class="title-3">Military Science, Naval Science, Aerospace Studies and/or Physical Education</p>
<p class="basic-text">A maximum combination of courses in these areas totaling 6 credit hours can be applied toward the bachelor of science in design degree as elective credit.</p>
<p class="title-1">Drop/Add</p>
<p class="basic-text">The university’s drop/add policy is outlined in the <span class="basic-text-ital">Schedule of Classes </span>each semester. The professional program subscribes to the same rules and limitations indicated in this publication. In general, classes can only be added during the first week of the semester. You may drop a class from your schedule anytime during the first eleven weeks of the semester. After the eleventh week, withdrawal from the class is possible only for extraordinary circumstances and will be granted only by petition. Grounds for extraordinary withdrawal include: military service, medical illness, death in immediate family, personal trauma, or complete absence from all courses without officially withdrawing.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The specific deadline for dropping a class is listed in the <span class="basic-text-ital">Schedule of Classes</span>. Students can access their MyRED account to drop or add classes. Please be warned, failure to attend classes does not constitute proper notification of dropping a class. If you are unable to attend classes, you need to see or telephone your instructor as soon as possible. Failure to do so may jeopardize your chances for dropping the class. If you wish to drop all your courses, you need to use the Withdrawal from the University form. See the section below for a description of this process.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Drop/Add form is available in the program office.</p>
<p class="title-1">Dual Degrees</p>
<p class="title-2">Joint Degree Programs</p>
<p class="title-3">Business</p>
<p class="basic-text">Architecture majors accepted to the 5th and 6th years may choose to pursue a three-year course of study that leads to joint degrees of master of architecture and master of business administration. Participation in this joint degree program requires admission into both the MArch and MBA programs. Students should consult with their adviser to develop an appropriate plan.</p>
<p class="title-3">Community and Regional Planning</p>
<p class="basic-text">Architecture majors accepted to the 5th and 6th years may choose to pursue a course of study that leads to joint degrees of master of architecture and master of community and regional planning. A suggested sequence of courses can be obtained from your adviser, the Architecture Program Office, or the Community and Regional Planning Program Office.</p>
<p class="title-3">Construction Management</p>
<p class="basic-text">Architecture majors accepted to the 5th and 6th years may pursue a course of study that leads to joint degrees of master of architecture and master of engineering in construction management. This requires acceptance by the construction management program. The required course sequence can be obtained from your adviser.</p>
<p class="title-1">Enrollment Policy</p>
<p class="title-2">College of Architecture Enrollment Policy</p>
<p class="basic-text">Enrollment in the pre-architecture, pre-interior design, and pre-landscape architecture majors shall be limited by available teaching resources and space capacities,<span class="basic-text-bold"> therefore an enrollment limit is established for each of these programs.</span></p>
<p class="basic-text">Admission to the pre-architecture, pre-interior design, and pre-landscape architecture programs occurs year-round; however, access to studio courses is not guaranteed for those students admitted beyond the February 15th deadline for transfer students or March 15th deadline for freshmen.</p>
<p class="title-2">Probation, Appeals and Dismissal</p>
<p class="basic-text">Undergraduate students who are placed on probation will not be allowed to take any new architecture, design, interior design, or landscape architecture courses without the permission of the program director. Students will be allowed to retake architecture, design, interior design, and landscape architecture courses while on probation. Students may not take the same course more than three times.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in the undergraduate program placed on academic probation by the College for two consecutive semesters will be transferred out of the College of Architecture into the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center and must reapply for admission to the College and the architecture, landscape architecture, or interior design programs. Students must have a cumulative GPA of 3.0 to be readmitted from the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center into architecture, interior design, and landscape architecture.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in the MArch program placed on probation will be allowed to continue with their classes for one semester. If their next semester grade point average is below a 3.0 they are dismissed from the degree program. Students desiring to be readmitted will have to apply for admission to the professional program.</p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Students who register for new architecture, design, interior design, or landscape architecture courses while on probation will be administratively dropped from those courses unless they have received the permission of the program director.</span></p>
<p class="title-2">Registration Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are not allowed to register for 200-800 level architecture, interior design, or landscape architecture courses unless they have been admitted into their respective professional programs. Some specific courses allow registration of non-majors with permission of the faculty member teaching the course but this permission process is not available to majors.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The programs have adopted limits on the number of credit hours a student can register for without the permission of the director. Students in good academic standing are allowed to register for a maximum of 17 credit hours. Students wishing to exceed this number must secure permission from the director prior to registering for the courses. Under no circumstances can a student register for more than 19 hours in a semester.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who are on academic probation are restricted to a maximum number of 12 credit hours. Permission to exceed 12 credit hours must be granted by the Program Director.  For more specific limitations for students on academic probation see the text on Academic Standing earlier in this section.</p>
<p class="title-1">Student Recognition</p>
<p class="title-2">Dean’s List</p>
<p class="basic-text">Each semester, select undergraduate students enrolled in the College of Architecture are recognized for their scholastic accomplishments by being named to the Dean’s List. Criteria for this honor are:</p>
<p class="list">1. Students must earn a semester (not cumulative) GPA that ranks them in the upper ten percent of the College’s enrollment.</p>
<p class="list">2. Students must earn a minimum of 12 graded credit hours during that semester. (Pass/No Pass credit cannot be applied toward the 12 required credit hours.)</p>
<p class="title-2">Graduation With Distinction and With High Distinction</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students with outstanding scholastic records may earn the special honor of graduation With Distinction or With High Distinction. One student each graduation may be chosen to graduate With Highest Distinction. Requirements for these honors are listed below.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduation With Distinction</span> shall be awarded to students earning at least 60 credit hours in residence at UNL who are in the 90th percentile of those graduating in the prior twelve month period or who have a minimum 3.6 cumulative GPA.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduation With High Distinction</span> shall be awarded to students in the top half of those who meet the qualifications for graduation with distinction and have a minimum 3.8 cumulative GPA.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduation With Highest Distinction</span> may be awarded by selection of the faculty to a student who meets the qualifications for graduation with high distinction and has also demonstrated outstanding professional excellence through creative work.</p>
<p class="title-1">International Education Programs</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">China.</span> The College of Architecture has a formal agreement for an exchange of faculty and students with the Northwest Institute of Architectural Engineering at Xian, People’s Republic of China. This exchange program was initiated in 1989.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Dublin, Ireland.</span> During the fall semester, qualified students in the Department of Architecture can elect to study in Dublin, Ireland. Under an agreement with the Dublin Institute of Technology, students have an opportunity to complete one semester of their requirements toward a degree at UNL.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Hannover, Germany.</span> During the spring semester, qualified students in the fourth or fifth year of the BSD program can elect to study in Hannover, Germany. Under an agreement with Hannover University, students have an opportunity to complete one semester of their requirements toward a degree at UNL.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Clermont-Ferrand, France.</span> During the spring semester, qualified students in the fourth or fifth year of the BSD program can elect to study in Clermont-Ferrand, France. Under an agreement with the university, students have an opportunity to complete one semester of their requirements toward a degree at UNL.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">London, England.</span> During each spring semester, qualified students may elect one semester of resident studies in London, England. The program offers students enrolled in the architecture (5th or 6th years), interior design (4th year), or landscape architecture (4th year) programs the opportunity to study urban and architectural design in a cross-cultural and comparative manner. Under the direction of a faculty member in either the architecture, interior design, or landscape architecture programs, the program is annually accommodated by a wealth of historic and modern case materials with cooperative assistance from educators and practicing professionals in the London area. Stephan Rienke (AIA, RIBA) serves as adjunct professor to the College and provides invaluable professional and cultural assistance to visiting UNL faculty and students.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Tianjin, China.</span> During each fall semester, qualified students may elect a semester of resident studies in Tianjin, China. The program offers students enrolled in the architecture (5th or 6th year) or landscape architecture (5th year) the opportunity to study design in an urban environment with cross-cultural influences. Under the direction of a faculty member of either architecture or landscape architecture, the program offers students a rich experience. Working with the urban design and planning office of KX International Design and Planning.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Monteverde, Costa Rica.</span> During the summer 3-week pre-session, the Community and Regional Planning program offers a 3-credit advanced field studies course in Costa Rica, covering basic field techniques in environmental, social and economic aspects of sustainable community planning in developing regions and sensitive environments.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Ecuador.</span> During the 3-week pre-session, the College of Architecture offers a 1-3 credit service-learning course led by Kim Wilson, Community and Regional Planning and Landscape Architecture programs director.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Paris, France.</span> During a 5-week summer session, the College of Architecture offers a 3-credit History &amp; Theory Elective course in Paris.</p>
<p class="title-1">Senior Check/Degree Audit</p>
<p class="title-2">Senior and Professional Check and Application for Degree</p>
<p class="basic-text">During the last semester of the third year of study, senior checks are to be initiated by the student and reviewed by the student’s adviser. The senior check forms are maintained by the adviser and filed in the students’ advising folders.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in the BSD, BLA, and MArch degree programs must also file a graduation notice with the Credentials Office early in the semester in which they intend to graduate. Failure to meet the published deadline will delay graduation one full term.</p>
<p class="title-1">Substitutions and Waivers</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students wishing to propose a course substitution in their curriculum of study must petition the Professional Program Committee by completing a substitution form. The substitution form should be filled out in consultation with your academic adviser. All proposals must include a detailed explanation for the substitution. The student’s adviser must review and sign the completed form before it can be submitted to the Professional Program Committee. It is very important that these procedures be followed for an expeditious response to the proposal. Substitutions must be approved before enrolling in a substitute course.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are advised the Professional Program Committee meets once a month, and will not consider any substitution proposals without a completed form and explanation signed by their adviser. The process to obtain a course substitution is lengthy and can not be accomplished at the “eleventh hour” to compensate for poor academic planning.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Copies of the substitution form are available in the program office.</p>
<p class="title-1">Internships</p>
<p class="title-2">Architecture Internship</p>
<p class="basic-text">An internship program is available to students who have completed the BSD or its equivalent before or during the 5th and 6th year of the Professional Program in Architecture. Academic credits will be given (up to 6 hours) for this internship experience. Students will be required to apply for acceptance into the program and will be monitored by the program’s internship coordinator.</p>
<p class="title-2">Interior Design Internship</p>
<p class="basic-text">All students enrolled in the interior design program need to complete an approved internship as part of their professional requirements. Students are not eligible for an internship until they are enrolled in, or have completed, IDES 351 Interior Design Studio 4.</p>
<p class="title-2">Landscape Architecture Internship</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students enrolled in the landscape architecture program are eligible to complete an approved internship as a part of their professional requirements. Academic credit will be given for this internship experience.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">ACE REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-2">Achievement-Centered Education (ACE)</p>
<p class="basic-text">The University of Nebraska–Lincoln requires all students receive a broad general education as part of their academic experience. This requirement translates into the obligation of all students to fulfill the requirements of the ACE program. Information about the ACE program may be viewed at ace.unl.edu.</p>
<p class="title-3">English</p>
<p class="basic-text">It is of vital importance that architects, landscape architects, and interior designers be able to express themselves clearly and concisely. As a matter of routine, architects, interior designers, and landscape architects are called upon to prepare reports, papers, or specifications in which clarity and precision are essential. For this reason, a student is required to do more than meet the English composition course requirement. In daily oral and written work the student must demonstrate an acceptable skill in the use of effective English. The dean may require students who fail to meet acceptable standards to do additional work in English composition or speech communication. Each instructor is expected to bring to the dean’s attention the students who need additional work.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are expected to take ENGL 150 or ENGL 151. ENGL 186, ENGL 187 and ENGL 192 may not be used to satisfy the freshman English composition requirement.</p>
<p class="title-3">Mathematics</p>
<p class="basic-text">All students in the College of Architecture are required to receive credit for MATH 104. Courses taken as deficiencies to qualify for MATH 104 will not apply as credit toward their degree.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Minimum Hours Required for Graduation</p>
<p class="list-indent">BSD in Architecture – 120 hours</p>
<p class="list-indent">BSD in Interior Design – 120 hours</p>
<p class="list-indent">Bachelor of Landscape Architecture (BLA) – 120 hours</p>
<p class="title-1">Grading Appeals</p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="no-style-override-2">A student wishing to appeal a grade should contact his or her professor for clarification first before an appeal can be filed. If the dispute cannot be resolved with the instructor it is recommended that the student meet with their adviser to get clarification on the appeals process. Appeals are only considered where it can be demonstrated that prejudice or capricious treatment influenced the grade received by the student.</span></p>
<p class="basic-text">Having exhausted these avenues, a student may then choose to make a formal appeal. The appeal is in the form of a written statement from the student to the program director. The director will then forward the letter to the Faculty Affairs Committee. The deadline for filing a grade appeal (which includes a written statement from the student) is 30 calendar days after the first day of classes of the next regular semester (fall or spring). Appeals filed after the deadline will not be heard.</p>
<p class="title-2">Incomplete Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Incompletes for students in the pre-professional program shall be granted only for reasons outlined in the policy statement adopted by the University Senate. See the UNL <span class="basic-text-ital">Schedule of Classes</span> for the complete text.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Incompletes given to students in the professional program are granted at the discretion of the faculty awarding the grade. The faculty and student together must file an incomplete form in the department office to register the anticipated completion date and the grade that will be registered if the work is not completed by that time.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Architecture students will be allowed a maximum of two weeks to remove incompletes from courses that are prerequisites to classes in which they are currently enrolled or they will be administratively dropped from those courses.</p>
<p class="title-2">Scholastic Standing</p>
<p class="basic-text">The following scholastic standards have been established to maintain the level of quality for students enrolled in the architecture program:</p>
<p class="title-3">Pre-Professional Program, Architecture, Landscape Architecture and Interior Design</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in the first year are required to maintain both a semester and cumulative grade point average at or above 2.0. The College places students who fail to meet these standards on academic probation.</p>
<p class="title-3">Second, Third and Fourth Year, Architecture</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in the second year are required to maintain both a semester and cumulative grade point average of 2.6. Students in the third and fourth year of the BSD program are required to meet two parallel academic standards. First the student must maintain a semester grade point average of 2.6 to remain in good academic standing. The program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation. Further, students whose GPA for the academic year is between 2.6 and 3.0 are required to submit their studio work for review by the Student Affairs Committee for determination of continuance in the program or repetition of the year’s studio sequence.</p>
<p class="title-3">Second, Third and Fourth Year, Interior Design and Landscape Architecture</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in the second year are required to maintain both a semester and cumulative grade point average of 2.6. Students in the third and fourth year of the BSD program are required to maintain a 2.6 cumulative grade point average to remain in good academic standing. The program also requires that students earn a grade of a C or higher in all required courses. The program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation.</p>
<p class="title-3">Fifth and Sixth Year, Architecture</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in the MArch program are required to maintain a semester grade point average of 3.0 to remain in good academic standing. The program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation.</p>
<p class="title-2">Minimum Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students must earn at least a C (2.0) in all courses with an ARCH, DSGN, IDES, or LARC prefix to earn credit toward their degree. Students will be required to retake all core required courses with a grade of C- or below, but will not be required to repeat courses that were taken as electives.</p>
<p class="title-2">Removal of Grades C- or Below</p>
<p class="basic-text">A professional student receiving a grade of C- or below for an overall course grade may remove that grade by retaking the same course again and receiving a higher grade. The higher grade will be used to compute the student’s cumulative grade point average, but all grades appear on the student’s transcript. The Pass/No Pass option cannot be used to remove these grades from the grade point average. Please be advised that once a course is no longer taught and no longer offered by the department it is not possible to remove a grade of C- or below through substitution or any other means.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should you perform poorly in many courses during a semester it is possible to bankrupt the entire semester’s grades. This is a drastic action and should be pursued only after a visit with your adviser.</p>
<p class="title-3">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">None of the required classes offered in the professional program are offered Pass/No Pass, but a maximum of 12 Pass/No Pass credit hours of humanities, social sciences, or open electives may be taken from departments outside the College of Architecture.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Courses taken outside the architecture, landscape architecture, or interior design programs to fulfill the upper level outside elective requirement at the 800 level or 900 level, with or without a 400-level counterpart, in a minor, collateral, or supporting area of work, can be taken on a Pass/No Pass basis.</p>
<p class="title-1">Transfer Credit Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">All professional credit earned at another university to be applied toward the master of architecture degree must be approved by the Professional Program Committee in cooperation with the program director. At least 50 percent of the required course work for the professional degree must be completed at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln with the exception of those students who are applying to enter the program with a four year degree from an accredited architecture program. No professional transfer credit will be accepted from a non-accredited architecture program.</p>
<p class="title-2">College Evaluation of Transfer Credit</p>
<p class="basic-text">First time students transferring to the College of Architecture from a similar accredited professional degree program will be evaluated on the basis of the current undergraduate bulletin in effect at the time the student enrolls in the College of Architecture.</p>
<p class="title-3">Process</p>
<p class="basic-text">The program director will select and identify those courses that are applicable to the professional program in architecture, interior design, and landscape architecture programs. The College of Architecture will not accept courses for transfer which are below a 2.0 on a 4-point scale.</p>
<p class="title-3">Evaluation of Technical and Nonaccredited Transfer Credits</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who desire to transfer credits from technical or nonaccredited colleges must have architecture credits evaluated by the director and/or appropriate program representatives. Non-architecture credits will be evaluated by the appropriate university department.</p>
<p class="title-3">Evaluation of Graphics, Design, and Production Drawing Credit</p>
<p class="basic-text">Transfer credit for graphics, basic and architectural, landscape architecture, and/or interior design work and production drawings will not be granted until the student’s work has been reviewed by the architecture, landscape architecture, or interior design program director. Allowable transfer credit in the design, production drawings, and graphics areas, whether the grades presented are C, B, or A, will be determined from this review and the student placed accordingly.</p>
<p class="title-3">Confirmation procedure:</p>
<p class="list">1. It is the student’s responsibility to initiate this task,</p>
<p class="list">2. The student procedure is to obtain the confirmation form from the program office and to seek review of appropriate materials, and</p>
<p class="list">3. A “portfolio review” will determine confirmation of credit. This review will be done by the appropriate faculty member or committee.</p>
<p class="title-3">Evaluation of General Education Credits</p>
<p class="basic-text">Transfer students who have formally applied for admission will have their academic credits evaluated by the Office of the University Registrar and the College of Architecture. The College will evaluate all hours submitted on an admission application but reserves the right to reject any of these credits.</p>
<p class="title-3">Clarification and Appeal</p>
<p class="basic-text">The student who has questions about or wishes to appeal the initial College evaluation of his or her transfer credit should contact the program office. If the evaluation is not satisfactorily resolved, the student has the right to register an appeal with the Student Affairs Committee of the architecture, landscape architecture, or interior design programs.</p>
<p class="title-1">Independent Study</p>
<p class="basic-text">Credit hours earned through independent study (ARCH 398, ARCH 498, ARCH 598 and ARCH 898; LARC 398, LARC 498; and IDES 398, IDES 498, IDES 898) need to be formally arranged with the faculty member supervising the work prior to registration for those credit hours. This is accomplished through completion of the Independent Study Contract available in the program office. It must have the signature of the faculty sponsor and be filed with the program office in order to be valid.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are limited to a total of <span class="basic-text-bold">9 credit hours </span>of independent study over the course of their academic career in the professional program.</p>
<p class="title-1">Other College Degree Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Off-Campus Programs</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Architecture recognizes the need for some students to pursue their pre-architecture, pre-landscape architecture, and pre-interior design studies at other institutions. One semester (15 credit hours) of off-campus study should cause minimal delay in students’ educational timetables if courses can be selected from the following list and are approved by the College of Architecture. Students are encouraged to coordinate their off-campus pre-architecture, pre-landscape architecture, and pre-interior design programs with the College of Architecture.</p>
<p class="title-2">Recommended Courses</p>

<p class="list">Calculus (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="list">English Composition elective (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="list">Humanities and Social Sciences electives (9 hrs) <span class="list-ital">See UNL ACE requirements.</span></p>
<p class="list">Physics (4 hrs) for pre-architecture or Natural Science (4 hrs) for pre-interior design or Introduction to Horticulture (3 hrs) for pre-landscape architecture</p>
<p class="list">Speech (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">DEGREES &amp; MAJORS</p>
<p class="title-1">Organization and Degrees</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Architecture consists of four academic programs: architecture, interior design, landscape architecture, and community and regional planning. Architecture, interior design, and landscape architecture all have a one year pre-professional program followed by professional degree programs. In architecture, it is a five year program in which students get a bachelor of science in design (BSD) degree and the professional master of architecture (MArch) degree. The landscape architecture program is three years in which students receive a professional bachelor of landscape architecture (BLA) degree. The interior design program is three years and culminates in the professional BSD degree. The community and regional planning program is exclusively a graduate degree program.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Both architecture and interior design have post professional MS research degrees.</p>
<p class="title-2">Community and Regional Planning</p>
<p class="basic-text">The community and regional planning program offers the two-year professional master of community and regional planning degree which is fully accredited by the Planning Accreditation Board (PAB).</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">MINORS &amp; AREAS OF SPECIALIZATIONS OFFERED</p>
<p class="title-1">Landscape Architecture</p>
<p class="basic-text">The landscape architecture minor is administered through the College of Architecture’s landscape architecture program.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The minor in landscape architecture is designed to provide a basic understanding of the nature of the profession of landscape architecture. Knowledge of landscape architecture history, theory, and context provides a useful addition to a student in any of the University disciplines.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The minor is open to all UNL students. Entrance to the minor is by application, grade review,and permission of the program director, Kim L. Wilson. Contact Leslie Gonzalez, admissions coordinator (232 Architecture Hall West, <span class="baec5a81-e4d6-4674-97f3-e9220f0136c1">402-472-4065</span>, leslie.gonzalez@unl.edu) for the application.</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Required Courses 18</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">DSGN 110 Design Thinking 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CRPL 400 Introduction to Planning 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 200 Landscape &amp; Environmental Appreciation 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 241 History &amp; Theory in Contemporary Landscape Architecture 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 461 Urbanism 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 497 Professional Elective 3</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">GRADUATE STUDENT INFORMATION</p>
<p class="title-1">Graduate and Professional Teaching and Research Assistantships</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Architecture has several teaching and research assistantships available each year. Students accepted into the master of architecture program, MS, and PhD/EdD programs or those who are in the process of making application for admission to the master of architecture program are encouraged to apply for these assistantships. A brief letter of interest and qualifications plus completed graduate assistantship recommendation forms (which are available in the Architecture Program Office) should be sent to the architecture program before February 1 of each year for consideration for the fall semester and November 15 for the spring semester.</p>
<p class="title-2">Course Hold for Professional Credit</p>
<p class="basic-text">Seniors who have obtained in advance the approval of the architecture program director may receive up to 12 hours credit towards their MArch degree prior to the completion of their BSD degree provided the following conditions are met:</p>
<ul>
<li>they are above the courses required for their BSD degree;</li>
<li>are taken under the 500 number; and</li>
<li>are taken in the calendar year prior to the receipt of the BSD.</li>
</ul>
<p class="content-box-m-p">BULLETIN RULE</p>
<p class="title-2">Degree Time Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students will be required to complete course work for their degree within a ten year period from the time they are admitted into the professional program in the second year.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">OTHER</p>
<p class="title-1">Ownership of Class Work</p>
<p class="basic-text">Significant student work will be retained on file by the program each semester as a necessary record for accrediting purposes and periodic display. Other student work must be retrieved by the student no later than seven working days past the end of the semester.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Architecture is not responsible for storing or returning student work. In addition, all padlocks left on lockers will be cut, and the materials in the lockers confiscated after completion of spring semester.</p>
<p class="title-2">Nonprofessional Master of Science Degree and PhD/EdD Degrees</p>
<p class="basic-text">The scholarly-nonprofessional master of science degree is a scholarly, research-based curriculum. For more information, please see the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Graduate Bulletin.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>