<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Fine &amp; Performing Arts Main Page 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="fine-performing-arts-main-page-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Fine &amp; Performing Arts</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
<p class="content-box-m-p">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts is comprised of the Department of Art and Art History, the Glenn Korff School of Music including the Dance Division, the Johnny Carson School of Theatre and Film, and the Mary Riepma Ross Media Arts Center. In addition, the Great Plains Art Museum, the Lied Center for the Performing Arts, and the Sheldon Museum of Art are affiliated with the College.<br /></p>
<p class="basic-text">The College offers a wide range of degrees: the bachelor of arts, the bachelor of fine arts, the bachelor of music, and the bachelor of music education. The programs in the College provide students with both a general liberal education, as well as specialized training in their chosen field. Many of the degrees offered by the College are professionally oriented, and prepare students to enter an occupation directly or to attend graduate or professional schools. Students may major in art, art history, music, music education, theatre arts, or dance.<br />Each of the academic units in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts is accredited by the national accrediting organization in the field: the National Association of Schools of Art and Design, the National Association of Schools of Dance, the National Association of Schools of Music, and the National Association of Schools of Theatre.<br /></p>
<p class="basic-text">The Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts is committed to facilitating the interaction between the many arts entities on campus, and to providing students with a high quality education and many opportunities to participate in cultural activities.</p>
<p class="title-1">Mission</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College nurtures creative, artistic activity and scholarship; educates students to a high level of accomplishment as artists, teachers, and scholars; and enriches the education of all students through the study and practice of the arts. The College provides the citizens of Nebraska with opportunities to enjoy, appreciate, and participate in the arts through outreach programs. Through its creative activity, research, and exhibitions it contributes to the arts nationally and internationally. In fulfillment of its mission, the College:</p>
<ul>
<li>provides comprehensive educational programs of study in the arts at the undergraduate and graduate levels.</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>fosters creative activity and scholarly research in the arts.</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>provides professional preparation for artists, historians, theorists, and arts educators.</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>sustains a strong commitment to liberal education for all UNL students through its course offerings and special programs.</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>provides opportunities for the performance, collection, preservation, publication, and exhibition of important works.</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>develops supportive and knowledgeable audiences and patrons for the arts.</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>maintains a strong interdisciplinary and continuing education emphasis by creating comprehensive cultural and educational opportunities.</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>supports and contributes to collaborative multicultural and intercultural programs.</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>serves the entire state and region as an important artistic and cultural resource through its exhibitions, performances, and educational outreach programs.</li>
</ul>
<ul>
<li>provides leadership for the understanding and development of the arts in the state and nation.</li>
</ul>
<p class="content-box-m-p">ADMISSION</p>
<p class="title-1">College Admission</p>
<p class="basic-text">Requirements for admission to the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts are consistent with general University admission requirements. These include:</p>
<ul>
<li>English (4 units)</li>
<li>Mathematics (4 units)</li>
<li>Social studies (3 units)</li>
<li>Natural sciences (3 units) and</li>
<li>Foreign language (2 units)</li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span> One unit equals one year of high school credit.</p>
<p class="title-3">One of the following performance standards must also be met: test score.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">New Freshmen:</span> Minimum ACT 20 (composite) or minimum SAT 950 (combined)</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Transfer and Readmit Students:</span> Completed twelve or more semester credits from a postsecondary institution with a minimum cumulative GPA 2.0 and GPA 2.0 during the last semester of record at the time of application. (Theatre majors with an emphasis in Film and New Media: minimum cumulative GPA 3.0 and GPA 3.0 during the last semester of record at the time of application.)</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">International Students:</span><span class="no-style-override"> Minimum TOEFL 70 (Internet) or 523 (paper)</span></p>
<p class="basic-text">Individual departments may have higher standards for acceptance into the different degrees and emphases. Please check with the individual departments for these standards.</p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Auditions are required for admission to the Glenn Korff School of Music for music and dance majors and minors. Auditions are also required for admission to the Johnny Carson School of Theatre and Film for the BA Performance Emphasis. A separate application and portfolio review are required for acceptance into the BFA Film and New Media Emphasis, and the BA Directing and Management Emphasis.</span></p>
<p class="title-1">Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL. These conditions are in this bulletin under “Removal of Deficiencies.”</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students with one deficiency, two deficiencies but not in the same category, or two deficiencies in foreign language who receive a Deferred Admission or Admission by Review, may be considered for admission to the college. Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL. These conditions are explained under Admission to the University, Removal of Deficiencies in this bulletin.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">ADVISING</p>
<p class="title-1">Academic Advising</p>
<p class="basic-text">Primary academic advising for students in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts is provided by the student’s home department or school. A faculty adviser is assigned by the department or school to help students plan their academic careers and select appropriate courses. Incoming freshmen are counseled during New Student Enrollment by specially trained advisers. Students are responsible for meeting with their academic advisers on a regular basis so that timely and appropriate counsel can be received. Students should contact their department or school office for more information on advising policies and procedures. The Dean’s Office is also available upon referral, but the department or school is the principal source for advising information.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students wishing to include credits transferred from another institution in their program of study must submit a transcript to the UNL Office of Admissions. The Dean’s Office will complete an evaluation of transfer credit  upon receipt of Courses Presented for Transfer from the Office of Admissions. <span class="basic-text-bold">Students who have previously had transfer credits evaluated in another UNL college must have the credits reevaluated upon entering the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts</span>.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The applicability of transfer credits toward major requirements is determined by the department or school offering the major. Students who wish to apply transfer credits toward major requirements or who wish to request any waiver or substitution of requirements must complete a Request for Waiver or Substitution form. The Request for Waiver or Substitution must first be approved by the appropriate Chief Adviser (listed below) and department chair, before being forwarded to the Dean’s Office for final approval. Requests for waiver or substitution involving courses not offered by the student’s home department or school must have the approval (on the Request for Waiver or Substitution form) of the appropriate UNL department.</p>
<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">Art and Art History:</span> Christy Aggens, 120 Richards Hall</p>
<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">Dance:</span> Susan Levine Ourada, 208 Mabel Lee Hall</p>
<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">Music:</span> Jacqueline Mattingly, 351 Westbrook</p>
<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">Music Education:</span> Robert Woody, 354 Westbrook</p>
<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">Theatre Arts (BFA):</span> Janice Stauffer, 10 Temple</p>
<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">Theatre Arts (BA):</span> Harris Smith, 213 Temple</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</p>
<p class="title-1">Academic Load</p>
<p class="basic-text">Full-time status is attained by registering for twelve or more credits each semester. The Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts allows a maximum of 20 credits per semester.</p>
<p class="title-1">Course Exclusions and Restrictions</p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="no-style-override">No credit for graduation is allowed for any course deemed to be high school-level (MATH 100A Intermediate Algebra, driver training education, etc.) or transfer credit from an institution with the primary purpose of vocational training (automotive repair, respiratory therapy, etc.).</span></p>
<p class="basic-text">The current Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts policy regarding elective credit in ROTC and activity or athletics practice courses in nutrition and health sciences, College of Education and Human Sciences is:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Students majoring in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts may count no more than 10 hours credit in military science, naval science or aerospace studies courses toward their degree. Credit for courses taken beyond this limit will not count toward the credit hour requirements for a degree from the College. This restriction does not apply to courses cross listed between military science, naval science or aerospace studies and departments of the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Students majoring in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts may count no more than 4 hours credit (1 credit hour per semester) in activity or athletic practice courses, and/or basic military training toward their degree. Additional activity, athletic practice and basic military training courses may be taken, but the credit earned will not count toward a degree from the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. A maximum total of 10 hours credit in activity, athletic practice, and basic military training courses and military science, naval science, or aerospace studies courses combined can be counted toward a degree in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts. This restriction does not apply to courses cross-listed between military science, naval science, or aerospace studies and departments of the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts.</p>
<p class="title-1">Credit Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Credit by Examination</p>
<p class="basic-text">Through study or experience that parallels a University of Nebraska–Lincoln course, a regularly enrolled University student may feel prepared to pass an examination on the course content of a specific course for credit in that course. To apply for credit, a student should:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Consult with the Department Chair.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Obtain a Credit by Examination Form at the Registrar's Office, 107 Canfield Administration Building, 402-472-3649. Current enrollment in the University must also be verified.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Secure the approval signature from the Department Chair, instructor, and the Dean of the student’s college.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Secure the bursar’s receipt for payment of the appropriate fee per course for Credit by Examination. Currently, the fee is one-half the resident tuition rate.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">5. Present the completed form to the instructor designated by the Department Chair. The instructor will give the examination and report the results on the Credit by Examination Form to the Registrar's Office, 107 Canfield Administration Building, 402-472-3636.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Examination for credit through UNL departments may be taken only by currently enrolled students. A student is not permitted to receive Credit by Examination in a course which is a prerequisite for a course already taken unless the course and its prerequisites cover essentially different subject matter.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts also gives credit for the subject and general examinations of the College Level Examination Program and the Advanced Placement Program administered by the College Entrance Examination Board. See the Dean’s Office, 102 Woods Art Building, for current policy regarding CLEP and AP examinations.</p>
<p class="title-1">Dual Degrees/Inter College Majors</p>
<p class="title-2">Dual Degrees</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who wish to pursue two degrees at UNL must declare the additional degree on a Dual Matriculation form approved by both colleges involved. Generally, 30 credit hours will be added to the minimum number of credits needed to complete the secondary degree. Students in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts are allowed to declare two degrees within the college, provided that the degrees are different. Two degrees (diplomas) are awarded upon completion.</p>
<p class="title-2">Inter-College Majors</p>
<p class="basic-text">A student in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts pursuing a bachelor of arts degree may also complete a second bachelor of arts major in the College of Arts and Sciences. Likewise, a student in the College of Arts and Sciences pursuing a bachelor of arts degree may also complete a second bachelor of arts major in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts. The student must complete all degree requirements in the degree college in addition to the course work for the second major in the visiting college. One degree (diploma) will be awarded upon completion.</p>
<p class="title-1">Honors Program</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts encourages qualified students to participate in the University Honors Program. As far as their plans and programs permit, these students are enrolled in the special sections for superior students. In addition, departments in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts offer special honors sections of regular freshman courses to meet the needs of students with superior preparation in those subjects.</p>
<p class="title-1">Student Recognition</p>
<p class="title-2">Dean’s List</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College recognizes students for academic achievement during the fall and spring semesters by placement on the College Dean’s List. To qualify for the Dean’s List in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts, students must complete 12 graded hours by the time of the first grade reports and attain a minimum semester grade point average of 3.7. The following do not qualify as part of the 12 credit hours: Pass/No Pass credit, transfer hours, removals of incompletes, and grade changes submitted after the census grade reports. Music education students are not eligible for the Dean’s List during the semester in which they are enrolled in MUED 497 (Student Teaching).</p>
<p class="title-2">Degrees with Distinction</p>
<p class="basic-text">In recognition of outstanding academic excellence, the College grants the bachelors degree with the designation of With Distinction, With High Distinction, and With Highest Distinction to qualified students. The College Academic Distinction and Awards Committee determines the level of distinction. To be recommended for distinction, candidates must fulfill the specific criteria for Highest Distinction, With High Distinction, or Distinction, as described below, in addition to all of the general criteria and procedures applicable to all distinction classifications.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Highest Distinction.</span> Candidates for the bachelors degree may be awarded Highest Distinction on the basis of the following criteria: outstanding scholastic standing (a cumulative GPA above 3.9 as of the semester preceding graduation) and a thesis project of high quality.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">High Distinction.</span> Candidates for the bachelors degree may be awarded High Distinction by fulfilling one of two sets of criteria: 1) by achieving outstanding scholastic standing (a cumulative GPA above 3.9 as of the semester preceding graduation), or 2) by achieving excellent scholastic standing (a cumulative GPA above 3.8 as of the semester preceding graduation) and a thesis project of high quality.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Distinction.</span> Candidates for the bachelors degree may be awarded Distinction by achieving one of two sets of criteria: 1) by excellent scholastic standing (a cumulative GPA above 3.8 as of the semester preceding graduation), or 2) by achieving high scholastic standing (a cumulative GPA of 3.5 as of the semester preceding graduation) and a thesis project of high quality.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The following criteria apply to all categories: an award of distinction on the basis of GPA alone (for Distinction or High Distinction) should not be considered automatic. In reviewing candidates, a consideration of the GPA is followed by an evaluation of the transcript, which includes: the general quality and breadth of the program, the quality of any transfer credit hours, the number of 300/400-level courses, the number of courses taken Pass/No Pass, and the number of courses retaken to remove D grades. Students must remove any incompletes by the end of the 8th week of classes in the term preceding graduation in order to be considered for recognition. In addition, ordinarily only students who have taken their last 48 hours of graded course work while registered in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts are considered. Consequently, it is possible for a student to have a GPA above the cut-off point and still not receive a recommendation for distinction. Also, graduation with any level of distinction is not automatic with the submission of a thesis project (a requirement for a degree with Highest Distinction, and an option for degrees with High Distinction or with Distinction). It does, however, make a student eligible to be considered for graduation with such honors.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Thesis Project.</span> The thesis project should be substantially more extensive than a term paper. It must be the result of independent, sustained thought, and intellectual curiosity, and it must be completed outside of the structured assignments normally required for a course (excluding 499H courses). A survey of the literature about a particular topic is not sufficient. The project must include a significant written component. All of the following elements are required: 1) an abstract consisting of no more than one page; 2) a clear formulation of the problem, question, or project; 3) a scholarly study which illuminates it, and 4) a substantive conclusion supported by evidence. Students must write in a manner and style that can be understood by a non-specialist in the field. A bibliography and reference to existing literature in the field should be included where appropriate. The phrase “Thesis Project” acknowledges the possibility of having a scholarly honors endeavor which might not conform to the narrow definition of a “thesis”. The following are examples of previous Thesis Projects: 1) the arrangement of a particular symphony and a detailed description of the process of composing arrangements with literary references, 2) the creation of a portfolio of photographic works accompanied by a lengthy historical and literary background, 3) a complete set of costume designs with detailed information about the design, research and garment building process and photographs of the realized costumes. The project must have a significant written component, but it need not be in the format of a formal thesis.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Procedure:</span> Students who elect to work on a thesis project must make arrangements before their senior year by consulting with a faculty member who will supervise the project. The student must register for an independent study course in their major area of study (499H) before proceeding with the preparation of the independent work. The Thesis Project Registration must be completed, with signatures, and filed in the Dean’s Office (102 Woods Art Building) by Tuesday of the second week of classes of the semester of graduation. The Thesis Project supervisor is expected to offer guidance to the student throughout the duration of the project. Two faculty members, the supervisor and the second reader, must complete a Thesis Project Evaluation Form. It is the responsibility of the faculty members to clearly address in their evaluations the extent to which the thesis project meets the three required elements listed above. Thesis projects and faculty evaluations must be submitted to the departmental unit head by the end of the 4th week of the semester of graduation. The unit heads signal departmental approval by forwarding the thesis project and faculty evaluations to the associate dean. Thesis projects not meeting the approval of the department will not be sent forward to the Dean’s Office for further consideration. The College Academic Distinction and Awards Committee conducts the final evaluation of the thesis project. Specific deadlines for each term are indicated on the Registration and Evaluation forms. Materials submitted after the stated deadlines will not be considered by the Academic Distinction and Awards Committee.</p>
<p class="basic-text">In general, every thesis project is reviewed by the Committee. However, if no member of the Committee feels qualified in the subject area of the thesis project submitted, the Committee solicits the help of another faculty member with an appropriate background. This outside reader then submits to the Committee a formal written evaluation. Even so, members of the Committee must depend heavily on the faculty evaluations.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in the UNL Honors Program may submit an Honors Thesis, providing all of the above requirements and deadlines are met.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students graduating in August must meet deadlines set for May graduates.</p>
<p class="title-2">Dean’s Award for Academic Excellence</p>
<p class="basic-text">This award is presented annually in the spring to the graduating student from the three graduations (May, August, and December) of the previous calendar year who has achieved the highest level of scholastic performance while in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts. The award is based on the final cumulative grade point average at graduation. In the event of a tie, other factors will be taken into consideration. It is expected that the last 48 hours of the student’s work will have been completed in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts.</p>
<p class="title-1">International Study/Education Abroad</p>
<p class="basic-text">Credit earned during education abroad may be used toward degree requirements if students participate in prior approved programs and register through UNL. Credit awarded from an institution other than UNL will be subject to transfer credit and residency rules.</p>
<p class="title-1">Senior Check/Degree Audit</p>

<p>In the term after which a student has completed 85 hours, Graduation Services in the Office of the University Registrar, 109 Canfield Administration Building, will perform a “senior check.” Students will receive notification about the requirements that still need to be fulfilled in their declared degree program. Questions about remaining requirements should be directed to the chief adviser for the major.</p>
<p class="title-1">Student Standing/Classification</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Sophomore Standing.</span> For admission to sophomore standing a student must have completed all of the College entrance requirements; earned a minimum of 27 semester hours of credit; and attained a total grade point average of at least 2.0.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Junior Standing.</span> A student has junior standing after meeting the requirements for sophomore standing and completing 53 semester hours of credit.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Senior Standing.</span> A student has senior standing after meeting the requirements for junior standing and completing 89 semester hours of credit.</p>
<p class="title-1">Substitutions and Waivers</p>
<p class="basic-text">Special requests concerning degree programs, including inquiries about exceptions to degree requirements, waivers, and substitutions should be made to the Dean’s Office, 102 Woods Art Building.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">ACE REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="basic-text">All students must fulfill the Achievement Centered Education (ACE) requirements. Information about the ACE program may be viewed at ace.unl.edu.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">BULLETIN TO USE</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who first enroll at Nebraska under the 2014-2015 Undergraduate Bulletin must fulfill the requirements stated in this bulletin or in any other bulletin which is published while they are enrolled in the College provided the bulletin they follow is no more than ten years old at the time of graduation. A student must, however, meet the requirements from one bulletin only rather than choosing a portion from one bulletin and the remainder from another.</p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Exception:</span> Students pursuing any degree in the Glenn Korff School of Music who fail to take at least one course that will fulfill their degree requirements during a 12-month period must apply for re-admission. They are then required to move to the new bulletin and fulfill the requirements in effect at the time of readmission.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">College General Education Requirements</p>
<p class="title-3">Introduction to Library Research (1 cr)</p>
<p class="basic-text">All students will complete LIBR 110, a one-credit hour class designed to teach basic information literacy skills to first year and transfer students. The course familiarizes students with an array of online information resources and introduces them to specific UNL Libraries services and resources.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who have 27 or more transfer credits applied toward degree requirements are exempt from the LIBR 110 requirement.</p>
<p class="title-1">Foreign Languages/Language Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">The languages requirement serves to help students gain a working familiarity with a language and a culture other than their own.</p>
<p class="basic-text">All students pursuing bachelor of arts or bachelor of music degrees are required to complete the intermediate level in one foreign language. Some or all of these courses may be completed while in high school. Courses approved to satisfy the languages requirement are offered by the Department of Classics and Religious Studies and the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures in the College of Arts and Sciences, and the Department of Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology in the College of Education and Human Sciences. A student is required to successfully complete 202 to fulfill the languages requirement. (Exceptions: In Japanese, a student must complete JAPN 201 and one additional course from JAPN 202, JAPN 203, and JAPN 204; In Greek, the student must complete two 300-level courses; in Latin, a student must take LATN 301 and LATN 302.) Instruction is currently available in Arabic, Chinese, Czech, French, German, Greek, Hebrew, Japanese, Latin, Omaha Native Language, Russian, Spanish, and American Sign Language.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span></p>
<ul>
<li>A student who has completed three years of one foreign language study in high school may fulfill the languages requirement by taking a fourth-semester-level course.</li>
<li>A student who has completed the fourth-year level of one foreign language in high school is exempt from the languages requirement.</li>
<li>Any student who achieves a specified scaled score in the College Level Examination Program (CLEP) subject exam in French, German, and Spanish, levels 1 and 2, will be exempt from the languages requirement and will also receive credit for the fourth semester course in the language.</li>
<li>A transfer student with 11 or 12 semester hours of accepted credit has two choices: 1) to complete 6 hours in the same language at the 200 level; or 2) with permission of the chair of the department to enroll in a fourth semester course.</li>
<li><span class="no-style-override">A student from a foreign country who has demonstrated acceptable proficiency in his or her native language (other than English) is exempted from the languages requirement without credit toward the degree. American students who present acceptable evidence that their second language is English are exempted from the languages requirement without credit toward the degree. All such students should see the Dean’s Office, 102 Woods Art Building, for this exemption.</span></li>
</ul>
<p class="title-2">Approved Courses</p>
<p class="list">ANTH 204A Native Language: Omaha III (ETHN 204A) (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">ANTH 205A Native Language: Omaha IV (ETHN 205A) (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">ARAB 201 Second-Year Arabic I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">ARAB 202 Second-Year Arabic II (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">CHIN 201 Second-Year Chinese I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">CHIN 202 Second-Year Chinese II (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">CZEC 201 Second-Year Czech I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">CZEC 202 Second-Year Czech II (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">FREN 201 Second-Year French I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">FREN 202 Second-Year French II (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">FREN 203 Conversation &amp; Composition I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">FREN 210 Accelerated Second-Year French (6 cr)</p>
<p class="list">GERM 201 Second-Year German I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">GERM 202 Second-Year German II (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">GERM 203 Composition &amp; Conversation I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">GERM 210 Accelerated Second-Year German (6 cr)</p>
<p class="list">GREK 301 Greek Prose I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">GREK 302 Greek Poetry I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">GREK 373 New Testament Greek (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">HEBR 301 Biblical Hebrew Prose (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">HEBR 302 Biblical Hebrew Poetry (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">JAPN 201 Second-Year Japanese I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">JAPN 202 Intermediate Grammar &amp; Reading I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">JAPN 203 Second-Year Japanese II (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">JAPN 204 Intermediate Grammar &amp; Reading II (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">LATN 301 Latin Prose I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">LATN 302 Latin Poetry I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">RUSS 201 Second-Year Russian I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">RUSS 202 Second-Year Russian II (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">SLPA 201 Second Year American Sign Language I (4 cr)</p>
<p class="list">SLPA 202 Second Year American Sign Language II (4 cr)</p>
<p class="list">SPAN 201 Second-Year Spanish I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">SPAN 202 Second-Year Spanish II (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">SPAN 203 Intensive Conversation (3 cr)</p>
<p class="list">SPAN 210 Accelerated Second-Year Spanish (6 cr)</p>
<p class="title-1">Minimum Hours Required for Graduation</p>
<p class="basic-text">A minimum of 120 semester hours of credit is required for graduation from the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts. Students in the College are required to maintain a minimum current and cumulative GPA of 2.0. Individual departments may require a higher current and cumulative GPA.</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College will accept no more than 15 semester hours of grades lower than C from schools outside of the University of Nebraska system.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Grades lower than C earned at UNL or transferred from other schools cannot be applied toward requirements in a major, but may be applied toward total hours.</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">University regulations for the Pass/No Pass privilege state: The Pass/No Pass option is designed to be used by a student seeking to expand his/her intellectual horizons by taking courses in areas where he/she may have minimum preparation without adversely affecting his/her grade point average.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Neither the P nor the N grade contribute to a student’s GPA</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. P is interpreted to mean C or above. Some professional education courses require a C+ or above.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. A change to or from Pass/No Pass may be made until mid-term (1/2 of the course.) This date coincides with the final date to drop a course without the instructor’s approval.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. The Pass/No Pass or grade registration cannot conflict with the professor’s, department’s, college, or University policy governing grading option.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">5. Prior to the mid-term deadline, changing to or from the Pass/No Pass requires using the MyRED system to change the grading option or filing a Drop/Add form with the Office of the University Registrar, 107 Canfield Administration Building. After the mid-term deadline, a student registered for Pass/No Pass cannot change to a grade registration unless the Pass/No Pass registration is in conflict with a professor’s, department’s, college, or University policy governing Pass/No Pass.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">6. The Pass/No Pass grading option cannot be used for the removal of C- or D or F grades.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Pass/no pass privileges in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts are extended to students according to the following additional regulations:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Pass/no pass hours can count toward fulfillment of ACE requirements up to the 24-hour maximum.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Freshmen and sophomores may enroll for no more than 6 hours of Pass/No Pass work per semester.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Students may not elect to take courses on a Pass/No Pass basis to fulfill degree requirements in the major. Departments may allow up to 6 hours of Pass/No Pass to be taken in the minor offered by the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Departments may specify that certain courses can be taken only on a Pass/No Pass basis.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">5. The College will permit no more than a total of 24 semester hours of Pass/No Pass grades to be applied toward degree requirements. This total includes all “pass” grades earned at UNL and other schools.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Individual departments vary in their policies regarding Pass/No Pass hours as applied to the major and minor. Consult the individual departmental listings for these policies. Students who wish to apply Pass/No Pass hours to their major and minor(s) must obtain approval on a form that is available in the Dean’s Office, 102 Woods Art Building.</p>
<p class="title-2">GPA Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are expected to maintain a minimum 2.0 grade point average each semester. Some programs within the College may have higher GPA requirements to keep in good academic standing.</p>
<p class="title-1">Transfer Credit Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">Ordinarily, hours earned at an accredited college are accepted by the University. The College, however, will evaluate all hours submitted on an application for transfer and reserves the right to accept or reject any of them. The maximum number of hours the University will accept on transfer from a two-year college is 60.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Normally credit is not given for pre-university work. In some instances, however, it may be possible to receive credit through satisfactory examination.</p>
<p class="basic-text">All transfer students must complete the Residency Requirement (see “Residency Requirement”), and at least 9 hours in the major field must be completed at the University regardless of the number of hours transferred.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts will accept no more than 15 semester hours of D grades from schools other than UNO or UNK. All grades may be transferred from UNO or UNK. However, transfer courses within a student’s major or minor will be evaluated by that unit and held to the same minimum grade standards as courses taken at UNL.</p>
<p class="title-2">Department of Art and Art History Transfer Credit Policy</p>
<p class="basic-text">A studio art or art history course presented for possible transfer to UNL is evaluated by the Department of Art and Art History using course descriptions and/or course syllabi to evaluate content, and course schedules to evaluate the hours of instruction.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Studio art courses that are eligible for transfer credit based on course content are awarded one credit hour for every 30 hours of instruction (with the assumption that the transfer course required 15 hours of work outside of class for every 30 hours spent in class with the instructor.) Credit is rounded to the nearest half-credit hour. If a course is presented for possible transfer, and the hours of instruction fall short of UNL’s NASAD-based standards, the course will receive a proportional reduction in credit.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">BFA –</span> At least 36 credit hours in studio art and 9 credit hours in art history of the required BFA courses must be taken at UNL. Courses taken at other academic institutions may be substituted for the remaining required courses subject to evaluation by the department.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">BA in Studio Art –</span> At least 12 credit hours in studio art and 9 credit hours in art history of the required BA courses must be taken at UNL. Courses taken at other academic institutions may be substituted for the remaining required courses subject to evaluation by the department.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">BA in Art History – </span>At least 18 credit hours of the required art history courses must be taken at UNL. Courses taken at other academic institutions may be substituted for the remaining required courses subject to evaluation by the department.</p>
<p class="title-2">Glenn Korff School of Music Transfer Credit Policy</p>
<p class="basic-text">The following will be used by advisers as guidelines for the evaluation of transfer credits which are <span class="basic-text-bold">less than five years old</span>:</p>
<ul>
<li>If a transfer student has successfully completed (grade C or above) approved transfer credits which are <span class="basic-text-bold">equivalent</span> to music major/minor requirements in terms of number of credit hours and scope of content, that area will be considered completed at the discretion of the chief degree program adviser.</li>
<li>For approved transfer credits which are <span class="basic-text-bold">lacking equivalency</span> in either number of credit hours, scope of content, or grade received to music major/minor requirements in applied music, music theory, sight singing/aural skills, and keyboard skills, the number of transfer credits accepted and placement will be determined by audition/proficiency tests administered by designated area faculty.</li>
<li>For approved transfer credits which are <span class="basic-text-bold">lacking equivalency</span> in other music areas (history and ensembles), the number of transfer credits accepted will be determined by the chief degree program adviser.</li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">All music course work which is <span class="basic-text-bold">more than five years old</span> must be validated by an audition or competency examination given by designated area faculty.</p>
<p class="title-2">Johnny Carson School of Theatre and Film Transfer Credit Policy</p>
<p class="basic-text">There are no additional restrictions regarding transfer credit.</p>
<p class="title-2">Transfer Credit from Foreign Institutions</p>
<p class="basic-text">Credit for courses taken at foreign universities and colleges will be transferred only after validation by the appropriate department. This evaluation may include examination of the student over subject matter studied at the foreign institution.</p>
<p class="title-2">International Baccalaureate Credit</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who have studied art, music, or theatre within the International Baccalaureate Program will be given credit for courses at UNL according to the guidelines established by each academic unit. Contact the department office for specific course information.</p>
<p class="title-1">Course Level Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">Upper-Level Requirement: Thirty of the 120 semester hours of credit must be in courses numbered above 299.</p>
<p class="title-1">Residency</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students must meet either of the following residency qualifications:</p>
<ul>
<li>At least 30 of the last 36 hours of credit must be registered for and completed while enrolled at UNL.</li>
<li>A total of 90 credits must be registered for and completed while enrolled at UNL.</li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">Thirty semester hours earned through On-line and Distance Education courses at UNL may be applied toward a degree from the College.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Credit earned during education abroad may be used toward degree requirements if students participate in prior approved programs and register through UNL. Credit awarded from an institution other than UNL will be subject to transfer credit and residency rules.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">DEGREES &amp; MAJORS</p>
<p class="title-2">Areas offering Bachelor of Arts degree:</p>
<p class="list-indent">Art</p>
<p class="list-indent">Art History</p>
<p class="list-indent">Dance</p>
<p class="list-indent">Interdisciplinary Studies</p>
<p class="list-indent">Music</p>
<p class="list-indent">Theatre–Directing and Management</p>
<p class="list-indent">Theatre–Performance</p>
<p class="title-2">Areas offering Bachelor of Fine Arts degree:</p>
<p class="list-indent">Art</p>
<p class="list-indent">Theatre–Design/Technical Production</p>
<p class="list-indent">Theatre–Film and New Media</p>
<p class="title-2">Area offering Bachelor of Music degree:</p>
<p class="list-indent">Music</p>
<p class="title-2">Area offering Bachelor of Music Education degree:</p>
<p class="list-indent">Music Education</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">MINORS &amp; AREAS OF SPECIALIZATIONS OFFERED</p>

<p class="list">Art</p>
<p class="list">Art History</p>
<p class="list">Dance</p>
<p class="list">Music</p>
<p class="list">Music Technology</p>
<p class="list">Theatre</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">GRADUATE STUDENT INFORMATION</p>

<div style="width: 1px; height: 1px; overflow: hidden; position: fixed; top: 10px; left: 10px;"></div>


<p class="content-box-m-p">OTHER</p>
<p class="title-1">College Scholarships and Student Support</p>
<p class="basic-text">Donors have provided a limited number of scholarships that are reserved for students in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts. Students interested in applying for one of these awards may obtain information from departmental chairpersons or from the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Undergraduate and graduate majors in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts may qualify for financial support through three programs funded by the Hixson-Lied Endowment, including Student International Study Support, Student Domestic Study Support, Student Scholarly and Creative Activity, and the Undergraduate Creative Research Grant. Applications and deadline information for all grants are available on the College website.</p>
<p class="title-2">Grading Appeals</p>
<p class="basic-text">A student who feels that he/she has been unfairly graded may take the following sequential steps:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Talk with the instructor concerned. Most problems are resolved at this point.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Talk to the instructor’s department chairperson.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Take the case to the Grading Appeal Committee of the department concerned. The Committee should be contacted through the department chairperson.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Take the case to the College Grading Appeals Committee by contacting the Dean’s Office, 102 Woods Art Building.</p>
<p class="title-1">Application for a Degree</p>

<p class="basic-text">Students should access their Degree Audit via MyRED at least once each term to review degree requirements and progress toward graduation. It is the student’s responsibility to make sure their Degree Audit accurately reflects their current College and program of study</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are expected to develop a clear understanding of degree requirements and to plan their course of study with a College adviser. Students who require clarification of outstanding degree requirements or believe their Degree Audit has errors or omissions should visit with an adviser promptly. It is important that these matters are resolved as soon as practicable to avoid a delay in graduation. </p>
<p class="basic-text">Each student must submit an Application for Graduation plus $25.00 check or cash fee <span class="basic-text-ital">for each degree</span> to be received to the Office of the University Registrar by:</p>
<ul>
<li>The last Friday in January for May graduation</li>
<li><span style="color: #333333;">The last Friday in June for August graduation</span></li>
<li><span style="color: #333333;">The last Friday in September for December graduation</span></li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">An electronic Application for Graduation and payment is available via MyRED. Those students choosing to apply for graduation in person may visit the Office of the University Registrar, 107 Canfield Administration Building. Applications for Graduation submitted in person or by mail must be accompanied by payment. Failure to submit a timely Application for Graduation may preclude the awarding of a degree in the intended term.</p>
<p><span class="no-style-override-2"></span></p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>