<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Public Affairs &amp; Community Service Main Page 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="public-affairs-community-service-main-page-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Public Affairs &amp; Community Service</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
<p class="content-box-m-p">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Administered by the University of Nebraska at Omaha</span></p>
<p class="faculty-list">John Bartle, Ph.D., Dean</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Public Affairs and Community Service (CPACS) on the Lincoln campus offers all undergraduate course work required for the bachelor of science degree in criminology and criminal justice. A minor in criminology and criminal justice is also offered in Lincoln. The College also offers all course work for a certificate or minor in gerontology on the Lincoln campus.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">ADMISSION</p>
<p class="title-1">College Admission</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who have been admitted to the University may apply for entrance to the College of Public Affairs and Community Service during initial registration by indicating their preference in the appropriate place on the University Application for Admission form.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who wish to transfer into the College from another institution or one of the schools or colleges within the University must request permission from the Dean’s Office and the department or school offering the student’s intended major. A minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.5 is required to transfer into the College.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who wish to readmit to the College must also have a minimum 2.5 cumulative GPA.</p>
<p class="title-1">Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students with high school admission deficiencies that have been admitted to UNL may enter the College of Public Affairs and Community Service but must remove any deficiencies according to University policy.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">ADVISING</p>
<p class="title-1">Academic Advising</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are responsible for knowing and completing all requirements of their chosen degree program. The aim and purpose of academic advising is to assist students in career planning, meeting the requirements of the degree program and in interpreting College policy regarding academic requirements.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students should see an adviser whenever questions arise concerning their academic programs. Students are encouraged to seek advisement with their assigned academic adviser at least two times per year, particularly, when registering for the senior year.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</p>
<p class="title-1">Course Exclusions and Restrictions</p>
<p class="basic-text">Credit earned in courses below the 100 level may not be applied toward the degree offered by the College of Public Affairs and Community Service.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Any restrictions noted specifically by departments. Credit towards the degree may be earned in only one course, including honors sections, from each group of courses listed below:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 313 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BIOS 314</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 105, CHEM 109, CHEM 111, CHEM 113, CHEM 195</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 116 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>CHEM 221</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 251 and more than 1 cr of CHEM 263</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 471 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>CHEM 481</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CSCE 252A <span class="no-style-override">or </span>CSCE 155N</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CSCE 252A <span class="no-style-override">or </span>ELEC 121</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CSCE 340 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>CSCE 480</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ECON 210 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>ECON 211 &amp; ECON 212</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ECON 215, CRIM 300, EDPS 459 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>STAT 218 (was STAT 180)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">FREN 201 &amp; FREN 202, <span class="no-style-override">or </span>FREN 210</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOL 100 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>GEOL 101 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>GEOL 101H</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOL 103 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>GEOL 105</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GERM 201 &amp; GERM 202, <span class="no-style-override">or </span>GERM 210</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GREK 102 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>GREK 151</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">LATN 102 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>LATN 201</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 101 and/<span class="no-style-override">or </span>MATH 102 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>MATH 103</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 104 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>MATH 106</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 200 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>MATH 300</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 201 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>MATH 301</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 340 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>MECH 480</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHYS 141 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>PHYS 151</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHYS 151 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>MSYM 109</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">SOCI 205 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>CRIM 251</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">SOCI 311 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>CRIM 337</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">SOCI 474 <span class="no-style-override">or </span>CRIM 413</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">SPAN 201 &amp; SPAN 202, <span class="no-style-override">or </span>SPAN 210</p>
<p class="title-1">Credit Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Credit by Examination</p>
<p class="basic-text">The student should refer all questions concerning the acceptability of credits earned in programs such as Cooperative Education and Credit by Examination to the department in which enrolled.</p>
<p class="title-1">Dual Degrees</p>
<p class="basic-text">A student who wishes to meet the requirements for two baccalaureate degrees must complete a minimum of 30 additional semester hours at the University beyond the first degree in order to be awarded a second degree.</p>
<p class="title-1">Student Recognition</p>
<p class="title-2">Dean’s List</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students enrolled in the College of Public Affairs and Community Service who maintain a grade point average of 3.5 or better while carrying 12 graded hours or more will earn the distinction of being placed on the Dean’s Honor List at the end of each semester.</p>
<p class="title-2">Degrees with Honors</p>
<p class="basic-text">The baccalaureate degrees with honors are awarded as follows:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. To all graduates whose scholastic average for their entire university career and at NU is 3.51 or above, but below 3.63, the degree cum laude.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. To all graduates whose scholastic average for their entire university career and at NU is 3.63 or above, but below 3.87, the degree magna cum laude.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. To all graduates whose scholastic average for their entire university career and at NU is 3.87 or above, the degree summa cum laude.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">To qualify for honors, a student must have earned at least 60 semester hours within the University of Nebraska system, 30 hours of which must be completed at the University of Nebraska at Omaha and/or the University of Nebraska-Lincoln and in which letter grades of “A,” “B,” “C,” or “D” are received. Grades awarded in all courses taken at all colleges and universities attended are included in computing the Grade Point Average (GPA) for determining eligibility for honors. It should be noted that the GPA included in the student grade reports issued by the Registrar’s Office reflects only courses taken at UNO, UNL, UNMC and UNK.</p>
<p class="title-1">Senior Check/Degree Audit</p>
<p class="basic-text">During the second semester of their junior year, or after completing approximately 89 hours, students should apply for an audit of their academic records to be sure that all requirements will be met before the anticipated date of graduation. Criminology and criminal justice majors may request the audit at the CPACS Office, 310 Nebraska Hall.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Criminology and criminal justice majors must also file an application for graduation at Graduation Services, 109 Canfield Administration Building, either just prior to or early in the semester they intend to graduate. Failure to meet the published deadline may delay graduation until the next semester.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">BULLETIN TO USE</p>
<p class="title-1">Choice of Catalog Policy</p>
<p class="basic-text">A student registering in the College of Public Affairs and Community Service for the first time may, except for limitations described below, complete work for the degree according to the requirements of 1) the catalog in effect the year the student enters CPACS, or 2) the catalog current at the time the student applies for the degree.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students entering the College for the first time in the summer will be subject to the catalog for the academic year immediately following.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students formerly in a CPACS program who drop out of the College for one year must complete requirements of the catalog current at the time of readmission.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Failure to complete the requirements for the degree within seven years after the date the student first enters the College will subject the student to graduation under the requirements of a later catalog to be approved by the Dean.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College reserves the right to institute and make effective, after due notice, during the course of a student’s work toward a degree, any new ruling which may be necessary for the general good of the College and to substitute courses currently offered for those no longer offered.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Achievement-Centered Education (ACE)</p>
<p class="basic-text">All CPACS students on the Lincoln campus must fulfill the Achievement-Centered Education (ACE) requirements. The 30-hour ACE requirement will include a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement-Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas which can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of courses they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes.</p>
<p class="title-1">Foreign Languages/Language Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in the College of Public Affairs and Community Service who have completed the University of Nebraska high school admission requirement of two years in the same language will not be required to complete additional language for their degree.</p>
<p class="title-1">Minimum Hours Required for Graduation</p>
<p class="basic-text">Each candidate must present a total of at least 120 semester hours of college credit to meet graduation requirements.</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">A minimum grade of at least C- must be earned in all required courses within the major, unless a higher grade is designated by the department/school. Completion of a course within the major with a grade below a C- will not be considered as having fulfilled prerequisite requirements for additional courses taken in the major field of study. A higher grade may be designated by the department/school.</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">See individual school/department limitations regarding Pass/No Pass.</p>
<p class="title-2">GPA Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">Each candidate for the degree must attain a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.0. A minimum grade of at least C- must be earned in all required courses within the major, unless a higher grade is designated by the department/school. All grades reported by the faculty to the registrar become a part of the student’s permanent record and are included in the computation of the grade point average, even though some of these grades may be for work done in excess of the 120 hours required for graduation.</p>
<p class="title-1">Transfer Credit Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">The transfer of D grades in non-major courses are accepted only from within the University of Nebraska system. Students from other institutions must present a grade of C- or above for all course work.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Generally, hours earned at an accredited college are accepted by the University, however, the college will evaluate all hours submitted for transfer to determine applicability toward the degree. A maximum of 64 hours may be transferred from a two-year college and a maximum of 90 hours from a four-year institution.</p>
<p class="title-1">Course Level Requirements (Hour Requirement 300+)</p>
<p class="basic-text">Individual departments/schools should be consulted for the minimum number of upper division hours required.</p>
<p class="title-1">Residency</p>
<p class="basic-text">Thirty of the last 36 hours required for the degree must be registered for and carried within the University of Nebraska system.</p>
<p class="title-1">Extended Education and Independent Study Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">Individual schools/departments should be consulted for rules regarding extended education and independent study credit applicable to majors or minors.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">DEGREES &amp; MAJORS</p>
<p class="title-1">Bachelor of Science in Criminology and Criminal Justice (BSCCJ)</p>
<p class="basic-text">Although the bachelor of science in criminology and criminal justice degree can be earned in its entirety on the Lincoln campus, the degree is granted by the University of Nebraska at Omaha.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">MINORS &amp; AREAS OF SPECIALIZATIONS OFFERED</p>
<p class="title-1">Minor in Criminology and Criminal Justice</p>
<p class="basic-text">The requirements to earn a minor in criminology and criminal justice will consist of a minimum of 18 credit hours to include CRIM 101 Survey of Criminal Justice (3 cr), a minimum of two of the three CRIM 203 Police and Society, CRIM 211 The Criminal Court System, CRIM 221 Survey of Corrections (6 cr), and a minimum of 9 credit hours of upper level (300/400) criminology and criminal justice courses (excluding CRIM 300 Applied Statistics). An overall C average in courses applied to the minor is required and all courses must be taken for a letter grade (not Pass/No Pass). In addition, all 9 credit hours of upper division course work must be taken in residence at the University of Nebraska.</p>
<p class="title-1">Minor or Certificate in Gerontology</p>
<p class="basic-text">Undergraduates may earn a certificate or minor in gerontology. The certificate consists of 15 hours of specified course work plus a one-semester practicum. The minor is comprised of 18 hours of course work. Although an undergraduate major in gerontology is not offered on the UNL campus, the certificate program may be used as a minor or concentration within several degree programs earned through other University departments.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Courses that meet the gerontology requirement are taught by gerontology department faculty as well as related faculty in other UNL and UNO departments. Students should consult the Department of Gerontology for the appropriate selection of courses.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Application materials for admission to the Gerontology Certificate Program can be obtained either from the Department office, 310 Nebraska Hall (402-472-0754); or CPACS Building 211 on the Omaha campus (402-554-2272), or at http://www.unomaha.edu/gero.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">GRADUATE STUDENT INFORMATION</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Public Affairs and Community Service offers graduate programs in Criminology and Criminal Justice, Gerontology, Social Work, and Public Administration. Refer to the College of Public Affairs and Community Service at the University of Nebraska at Omaha website (http://cpacs.unomaha.edu) for information on these graduate programs.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">OTHER</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Appeals Procedure</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who wish to appeal a grade which they feel was capriciously or prejudicially given shall first discuss the matter with the instructor within 30 days of the final course grade being posted. If the matter is not resolved, the student must meet with the department/school chairperson. If a satisfactory agreement cannot be reached, the student must appeal, in writing, to the department/school curriculum committee. If a satisfactory agreement cannot be reached, the student may submit a written appeal to the Office of the Dean within 20 working days of the exhaustion of the departmental procedures.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Committee on Academic Standards and Curriculum for the College of Public Affairs and Community Service is the official body for handling the appeal.</p>
<p class="basic-text">In the event that the instructor is unavailable for handling a grade complaint, the student will meet with the Department Chair/School Director and the Dean to determine the most appropriate course of action agreeable to all parties.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>