<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Anthropology 16-17.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="anthropology-16-17">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Anthropology</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Anthropology</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Dr. Martha McCollough</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: LuAnn Wandsnider</span>, 816 Oldfather Hall</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Hames, Wandsnider</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Athanassopoulos, McCollough</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Heitman, Richards-Rissetto</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors of Practice:</span> Babchuk, Hammerl</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturer:</span> Douglass</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Courtesy Faculty:</span> Gibson (College of Business Administration), Hamann (College of Education and Human Sciences), Reinhard (School of Natural Resources), Sarroub (College of Education and Human Sciences)</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Research Faculty:</span> Hartley, Hunt, Scott</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Adjunct Faculty:</span> Dempsey, Rippiteau, Rissetto, Schilling</p>

<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Undergraduate Advisor:</span> Dr. Martha McCollough, 402-472-2441, mmccollough1@unl.edu</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Department of Anthropology synthesizes humanistic and scientific perspectives on human biological and cultural diversity as well as the evolutionary trends seen for humankind. Students and faculty bring this integrated perspective to interactions and collaborations with others in a variety of departments and programs in each of the Colleges across the University.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Courses in anthropology acquaint students with the range of human behavior as differentially explored within each of the subdisciplines within Anthropology--archaeology, biological anthropology, and cultural anthropology. Methodological courses outfit students with valuable analytic and research skills in qualitative, quantitative and GIS analysis as well as in content-appropriate analytic protocols, as for the analysis of archaeological and ethnographic materials.</p>
<p class="basic-text">We value the synergy that comes from working between the subdisciplines of Anthropology. This synergy is realized in our integrated approach to Digital Cultural Heritage, which is the application of information technologies to advance research in the broadly construed and highly interdisciplinary area of culture heritage. Our faculty has special expertise in the development, application, and distribution of content and technologies in Digital Cultural Heritage.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Our Department offers a field school in archeology annually and we help students identify internship opportunities in the city of Lincoln, Nebraska, and the United States. Students have interned at the Smithsonian and at museums and national agencies throughout the United States. In Lincoln, students have completed internships with the Asian Community and Cultural Center, the Indian Center, the National Park Service Midwest Archeological Center (one of two major NPS research laboratories) and the People’s City Mission, to name a few.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Recommendations.</span> Because of the broad and interdisciplinary nature of anthropology, we recommend that majors select additional courses outside the department to enhance their appreciation of and improve their skills in related disciplines. The student’s advisor will make specific course recommendations in keeping with individual needs and interests. See also online Career Paths.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> The Department of Anthropology offers graduate work leading to the master of arts degree. A description of the program appears in the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Advisor:</span> Dr. Effie Athanassopoulos, 402-472-0172, eathanassopoulos1@unl.edu</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Anthropology (31 hours)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Foundation Courses 10</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ANTH 212 Introduction to Cultural Anthropology (ETHN 212) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ANTH 232 Introduction to Prehistory 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ANTH 242 &amp; ANTH 242L Introduction to Biological Anthropology &amp; Lab 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Advanced Anthropology Courses 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Archaeology 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 337 Archaeology of the American Southwest (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 386 Digital Heritage Tools (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 431 Historical Archaeology: Current Topics (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 432 History &amp; Theory of Archaeology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 433 North American Archaeology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 434 Introduction to Great Plains Archaeology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 436 The Ancient Maya (LAMS 436) (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 438 Topics in Old World Prehistory (CLAS 438) (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Biological Anthropology 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 344 Human Osteology (4 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 374 Primate Behavior &amp; Ecology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 385 Human Origins (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 422 Medical Anthropology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 442 Human Variation (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 430 Nutritional Anthropology (NUTR 430) (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 443 Dental Anthropology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 448 Human Growth &amp; Development (BIOS 448) (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Cultural Anthropology 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="tx f41" style="word-spacing: -0.1pt; top: 17.8pt; width: 37.9pt; height: 8.2pt; border-width: 0 240pt 3pt 11pt;">ANTH 350 Peoples &amp; Cultures of Latin America (ETHN 350) (3 hrs)</span><span class="tx" style="top: 28pt; width: 168.4pt; height: 8.2pt; border-width: 0 0 3pt 11pt;"></span><span class="tx" style="word-spacing: -0.1pt; top: 28pt; left: 178.4pt; width: 99.7pt; height: 8.2pt; border-width: 0 10pt 3pt 0;"></span><span class="tx" style="top: 38.5pt; width: 2.3pt; height: 8.2pt; border-width: 0 276pt 3pt 11pt;"></span><span class="tx" style="letter-spacing: -0.05pt; word-spacing: 0.05pt; top: 49pt; width: 67.3pt; height: 8.2pt; border-width: 0 211pt 3pt 11pt;"></span><span class="tx" style="top: 59.4pt; width: 2.3pt; height: 8.2pt; border-width: 0 276pt 3pt 11pt;"></span><span class="tx" style="top: 69.9pt; width: 72.3pt; height: 8.2pt; border-width: 0 206pt 11pt 11pt;"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 351 Indigenous Peoples of North America (ETHN 351) (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 352 Indigenous Peoples of the Great Plains(ETHN 352) (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 353 Anthropology of War (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 362 Peoples &amp; Cultures of Africa (ETHN 362) (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 366 Peoples &amp; Cultures of East Asia (ETHN 366) (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 410 Gender: An Anthropological Perspective (WMNS 410) (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 412 Family, Marriage, &amp; Kinship (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">*ANTH 416 Digital Anthropologies (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">*ANTH 417 History of Anthropological Theory (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 418 Ethnology &amp; Museums (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 419 Art &amp; Anthropology of Native North Americans (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 451 Contemporary Issues of Indigenous Peoples in North America (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 472 Belief Systems in Anthropological Perspective (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 473 Ecological Anthropology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">*ANTH 474 Applied &amp; Development Anthropology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 477 Hunters-Gatherers (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">*ANTH 488 Contentious Issues in Anthropology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Research Methods 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 290 Fieldwork (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 384 Quantitative Methods in Anthropology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 389 GIS in Archaeology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 390 Field School in Archaeology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="tx" style="top: 140.2pt; width: 52.3pt; height: 8.3pt; border-width: 0 0 3pt 11pt;"></span><span class="tx f980" style="letter-spacing: -0.05pt; word-spacing: 0.05pt; top: 140.2pt; left: 62.3pt; width: 276.9pt; height: 8.3pt; border-width: 0 0 3pt 0;">ANTH 406 Visualization &amp; the Ancient City (AHIS 406) (3 hrs)</span><span class="tx" style="top: 140.2pt; left: 339.1pt; width: 1.9pt; height: 8.3pt; border-width: 0 10pt 3pt 0;"> </span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 461 Geospatial Approaches in the Digital Humanities &amp; Social Sciences (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 482 Field Methods in Ethnography (3 hrs)</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 487 Analysis of Archaeological Materials A-E (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 490 Advanced Field Work (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 491 Advanced Laboratory Work (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Electives 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select courses from</span>: 100-, 200-, 300-, or 400- series.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Integrative coursework is recommended. Courses above with asterisk integrate knowledge from each of the subdisciplines of Anthropology. </span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Fieldwork is recommended.</span> Only 6 credits total of ANTH 290, 390, and ANTH 490 may count toward the major. Only 3 credits of ANTH 291 or ANTH 491 may count toward the major.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its program, majors will, as they complete an ACE 10 course in their junior or senior year:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Participate in a focus group discussion of programmatic strengths and weaknesses.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Complete an exit survey, submitted anonymously.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Results of participation in these assessment activities will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> Students contemplating graduate work should work closely with advisor to design course of study.</p>
<p class="title-1">Minor Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">A minor may be chosen from any minor offered by the College of Arts and Sciences.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">No course may be taken Pass/No Pass.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Course Level Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">At least 12 hourse in courses numbered in the 300 and 400 series. May be satisfied by courses from the Advanced Anthropology Course list or the Research Methods course list.</p>


<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="basic-text">Requires 18 hours of anthropology including ANTH 110; at least one of the 200-level core courses in anthropology (ANTH 212 Introduction to Cultural Anthropology (ETHN 212), ANTH 232 Introduction to Archaeology, or ANTH 242 Introduction to Biological Anthropology); and, at least one 300- or 400-level anthropology course. Up to 6 hours of field study (ANTH 290, ANTH 291, ANTH 490, ANTH 491) courses may apply. Excluded courses: ANTH 130.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>