<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Early Childhood Education in a Mobile Society 16-17.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="early-childhood-education-in-a-mobile-society-16-17">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Early Childhood Education in a Mobile Society</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Early Childhood Education in a Mobile Society</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Valerie Wiemeyer</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Early Childhood Education in a Mobile Society (ECEMS) will prepare you to work in early childhood settings with young children whose family members are highly mobile. When you complete the program, you will be qualified to work in a variety of programs that offer early care and education for children birth to age 8 and particularly those with highly mobile populations such as military installations.</p>
<p class="basic-text">This is an online program offered as part of the Great Plains Interactive Distance Education Alliance (IDEA). The Great Plains IDEA is a consortium of universities collaborating in the delivery of programs. As a student in this program, you will enroll for all your course work through UNL and you will graduate from UNL, but your online courses will be taught by faculty at each of the participating universities. Core courses (45 credits; identified under the heading ECEMS Requirements below) in this program are subject to differential tuition at the common Great Plains IDEA rate. For 2016-2017, this rate is $390 per credit hour. The Great Plains IDEA rate does not apply to tuition and fees for any remaining credit hours needed to complete the bachelors degree (i.e., ACE requirements, minor and elective requirements).</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Endorsement Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Degree at a Glance</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">ACE Requirements 33</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 1. Any ACE 1 Course <span class="requirement-ital">(Suggested online courses: ENGL 151)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 2. Any ACE 2 Course <span class="requirement-ital">(Suggested online course: COMM 286)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 3. Any ACE 3 Course <span class="requirement-ital">(Suggested online courses: CSCE 101, ECON 215, MATH 104)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 4. Any ACE 4 Course <span class="requirement-ital">(Suggested online courses: AGRI 115, AGRO 131, ENTO 115)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 5. Any ACE 5 Course <span class="requirement-ital">(Suggested online courses: GPSP 377, NRES 130)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 6. Any ACE 6 Course <span class="requirement-ital">(Suggested online courses: ANTH 110, CRIM 101, ECON 211, SOCI 209, SOCI 225)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 7. Any ACE 7 Course (Suggested online courses: AHIS 101) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 8. Any ACE 8 Course <span class="requirement-ital">(Suggested online courses: CYAF 150, ECON 211)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 9. Any ACE 9 Course <span class="requirement-ital">(Suggested online courses: ANTH 110, ECON 321,  GPSP 377, GPSP 378, POLS 160, SOCI 200, SOCI 225, WMNS 101, WMNS 377)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 10. CYAF 410 <span class="requirement-ital">(ECEMS Requirement)</span> 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">ECEMS Requirements 45</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> Students must be admitted into the ECEMS program to take these courses. Admission requirements: 30 credit hours completed, 2.5 cumulative GPA.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 203, CYAF 204, CYAF 205, CYAF 301, CYAF 302, CYAF 303, CYAF 304, CYAF 305, CYAF 306, CYAF 307, CYAF 405, CYAF 406, CYAF 407, CYAF 408, CYAF 409, 3 hrs each;</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 410 6 hrs <span class="requirement-ital">(6 hrs met in ACE 10 ) </span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Electives/Minor: 42</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 120</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for CYAF courses.</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">All CYAF courses must be taken for a grade (not Pass/No Pass).</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>
<p class="title-1">Criminal History Background Check</p>

<p>The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS) has the responsibility to ensure that all students who interact with children of all ages, served by schools or other public or private agencies meet a high level of personal, professional and ethical behavior. These CEHS students must complete an official criminal history background check through the CEHS vendor, prior to participating in a field experience or internship. Students are responsible for the cost of any required criminal history background check and will be required to complete one upon admission to a program and/or an initial field placement. Eighteen months after the initial background check has been completed, undergraduate students are required to complete the CEHS self-disclosure report, a self-report collected by the college. Graduate students will be required to complete the self-disclosure report at the same time as the initial background check is conducted and again eighteen months later. If more than three years have elapsed after the initial background check is conduced, CEHS students must complete an additional background check prior to participating in a field experience or internship.  Students are responsible for the cost of additional background checks.</p>
<p>Students with felony or any misdemeanor charges or convictions, as reported on the background check, may be contacted by the College. Depending upon the frequency and severity of the charges and/or convictions, students may be required to meet with the Director of Professional Experiences. <strong>If any new charges or convictions are acquired after a background check has been completed, students are required to report those to the Director of Professional Experiences within two weeks after the event occurs.</strong> Failure to disclose any new information concerning one's criminal history can lead to removal from the program. Continued participation in school or community field experiences in the College will be based on the type and number of convictions, the recency of those occurrences, and whether they violate the requirements of the Nebraska Department of Education and/or the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services. If the convictions are deemed to be serious in nature, a student may be prohibited from participating in a field experience in a pre-school, school or public agency setting.  The student may then be referred to the department chair for further disciplinary action.</p>
<p><strong>Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</strong></p>
<p>Students planning to enter professions in education or the human sciences must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and others.  Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences requires that its students show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act in a responsible manner. Students must consider how the College, the profession, an employer, or the community perceive or evaluate the impact of any questionable behavior.  Students' success in their profession is impaired by taking risks that are unacceptable for children, demonstrating a lack of professionalism and good judgment, and showing disregard for one's personal reputation or the integrity of the College. </p>
<p>The College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to evaluate student fitness for the profession and deny entry to or dismiss a student from any program if, through the reasonable exercise of the judgment of its Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences, the College determines that the student's behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or represents risk to young persons. Such behaviors shall be adequate foundation to deny the student's participation in any practicum or field experience to protect the interests and safety of children. The consequences of unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will depend upon the unique circumstances involved.</p>
<p><strong>Appeal to the Dean</strong></p>
<p>Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences with respect to a criminal behavior or unprofessional behavior, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing, within ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student's written appeal shall clearly explain the basis for the appeal. The Dean will review the student's basis for appeal and is authorized but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student's written appeal. The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possible, but in no case longer than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences a written decision, which shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review with the University of Nebraska.</p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold"></span></p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>