<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Engineering Leadership Minor 16-17.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="engineering-leadership-minor-16-17">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Engineering Leadership Minor</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Engineering Leadership Minor</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 18</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Carmen Zafft</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair and Advisor: </span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Faculty:</span></p>

<p class="title-1">Overview and Purpose </p>
<p class="basic-text">The engineering leadership minor provides students an opportunity to focus on building leadership, management, and interpersonal skills needed to solve many of our societal challenges. Students complete a series of leadership, project management and interpersonal skills courses using experiential learning strategies and combine subject area knowledge gained in courses from their majors with strategies and skills to effectively lead in the engineering profession.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Courses included in the minor are leadership courses developed for the minor and focus on leadership, management and interpersonal skill needs of engineering students as well as courses lead by the faculty in the Department of Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication.</p>
<p class="basic-text">This minor is intended to serve students in the College of Engineering. The minor contributes to the National Academy of Engineers call to expose engineering students to formal studies of leadership development (NAE, 2004) and the College of Engineering's mission to graduate the "Complete Engineer."</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR DEPARTMENT ADMISSION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Open to student in the College of Engineering only.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="basic-text">The engineering leadership minor is an interdisciplinary program; providing course offerings through the College of Engineering (COE) and the Department of Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication (ALEC). To successfully complete the minor, students are required to complete 18 credit hours in leadership and professional development; 9 of which come from engineering leadership and management courses.</p>
<p class="title-1">Courses</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">ENGR Leadership &amp; Management Courses 9</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 100 Interpersonal Skills for Engineering Leaders (ACE 2) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 200 Professionalism &amp; Global Perspective (ACE 6 &amp; 9) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 320 Leadership, Management &amp; Ethics (ACE 6 &amp; 8) 3 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Leadership Courses 3-6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one or two theory-based courses from the following</span>: 3-6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 202 Foundations of Leadership Theory &amp; Practice (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 302 Dynamics of Effective Leadership in Organizations (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">*ALEC 433 Dynamics of Effective Leadership in Groups &amp; Teams (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 477 Leadership &amp; Motivation (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one or two application courses from the following</span>: 3-6 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 407 Supervisory Leadership (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">*ALEC 410 Environmental Leadership (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">*ALEC 422 Facilitation &amp; Project Planning (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">*ALEC 466 Leadership &amp; Diversity in Organizations &amp; Communities (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Experiential Learning in Leadership 0-3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Select zero to one course from the following:<em>  </em></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">**ALEC 337 Instructional Internship in Leadership Development (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 18</p>
<p class="asterisk">* Note that junior standing is required for these courses.</p>
<p class="asterisk">** Credit received for being an undergraduate teaching assistant at the selection of the instructor.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="basic-text">All courses must be completed with a Pass, or grade of C or higher.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Up to 6 credit hours may be taken as Pass/No Pass.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<ul>
<li>Requirement 1</li>
</ul>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>