<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>English 16-17.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="english-16-17">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">English</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> English</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Kelly Payne</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair:</span> <span class="faculty-list">Marco Abel</span></p>
<p><span class="faculty-list-bold">Vice Chair:</span> <span class="faculty-list">Stephen Buhler</span></p>
<p><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Abel, <span class="faculty-list">Agee, Bauer, Behrendt, Brooke, Buhler, Castro, Dawes, Dixon, Foster, Garelick, Goodburn, Homestead, Honey, Kaye, Kooser, Lynch, Price, Reynolds, Stenberg, White</span></p>
<p><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Capuano, <span class="faculty-list">Dreher, Gailey, Gannon, Jockers, Minter, Montes, Ramsay, Rutledge, Schaffert, Schleck, Végső</span></p>
<p><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="faculty-list"> Capó Crucet, Obioma, Stage, Waite, Wendler, Wisnicki</span></p>
<p><span class="faculty-list-bold">Research Associate Professor:</span><span class="faculty-list"> Ronning</span></p>
<p><span class="faculty-list-bold">Research Assistant Professor:</span><span class="faculty-list"> Rilett</span></p>
<p><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor of Practice:</span><span class="faculty-list"> Griffin</span></p>
<p><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors of Practice:</span> Azima, <span class="faculty-list">Vespa</span></p>
<p class="basic-text">The Department of English seeks to provide for the diverse needs of its students by offering them the opportunity to read widely, to understand and enjoy what they read, and to express themselves both orally and in writing with ease, force and clarity. Through the practice of writing and the study of language, literature and film, the department strives to stimulate humanistic learning and the capacity to respond rationally and imaginatively to literature and the life it reflects.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The undergraduate major in English is designed for three groups: 1) those who seek a general education; 2) those who plan to teach in the elementary and secondary schools; and 3) those who plan to pursue graduate study in the field. The major is also frequently chosen as preparation for professional study in law, medicine, and business, and for careers in other fields such as publishing, editing, library science, and digital humanities. Many students find the English major is a fine complement to a major in a professional field.</p>
<p class="basic-text">A student declaring an English major will meet with the advisor to establish a plan for the major. Thereafter the student must meet with the advisor at least once a year to update the major plan, review progress toward the degree, plan a concentration, and consult about course selection, scholarships, and careers or post-graduate education. The department Advising Center (201 Andrews Hall) will offer written information about these matters and others of interest to majors.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Special Programs.</span> The Department of English houses the major in Film Studies and participates in the majors in Ethnic Studies, Environmental Studies, and in Womens and Gender Studies; in the minors in African American Studies, U.S. Latina/Latino Studies, Ethnic Studies, Native American Studies, Jewish Studies, Medieval and Renaissance Studies, Environmental Studies, Religious Studies, and Digital Humanities.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span></p>
<p class="title-2">The Curriculum</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Course Offerings.</span> English courses are regularly offered in drama, poetry, and fiction; the English language; periods and authors in British and American literature; women's and minority literatures; creative and expository writing; literary and rhetorical theory and criticism; digital humanities; and film. For the precise courses offered or to be offered in any particular semester, see the Office of the University Registrar's website at registrar.unl.edu for that semester. A course description booklet is also available in the departmental office and online before each early registration period.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Credit Hours.</span> Undergraduate English courses will usually yield 3 semester hours of credit. Graduate-level seminars are usually offered for variable credit (normally 3 or 4 credit hours). The letter suffix H indicates an honors course.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Independent Study.</span> This course of study is a provision for students wishing to study areas of literature and language not covered or insufficiently covered in regularly scheduled classes. Students must secure permission from a professorial staff member willing to direct their study and must file an Independent Directed Reading Contract (available in the Advising Center, 201 Andrews Hall) with the Undergraduate Advisor.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> Neither ENGL 495 (Internship) nor ENGL 497 (Independent Study) count towards fulfilling 400-level requirements for majors and minors. A maximum of 6 credit hours of ENGL 399 (Independent Study) and/or ENGL 497 may count towards the 300-level requirement for the major.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Prerequisites.</span> The first course in English is ordinarily chosen from courses numbered 100-151. However, international students who are not native speakers of English normally take English courses such as ENGL 140, ENGL 141, ENGL 142, ENGL 186, ENGL 187, and ENGL 188.</p>
<p class="title-2">Course Levels</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">100 Level.</span> Introductory courses are open only to freshman and sophomore students. Transfer students and others who have not met the communication requirement and are juniors or seniors must choose ENGL 254 or ENGL 354 to complete this requirement. (In unusual cases, exceptions to this rule may be granted by the Advisor, English Department.) Writing is emphasized in courses numbered 100-199, and all such courses except ENGL 140, ENGL 141, ENGL 142, ENGL 180, ENGL 189H, ENGL 186, and ENGL 187, are designed to fulfill ACE Outcome 1. Newly admitted students who are not native speakers of English must take an English placement examination to determine their appropriate course requirement.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">200 Level.</span> Courses designed for the intermediate student who has completed or is concurrently taking one or two courses in English.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">300 Level.</span> Courses designed for the intermediate student who ordinarily will have had two courses at the 200 level. These students should normally take the remainder of their courses at the 300 level or 400 level. English majors and minors should advance to the 300 level as soon as possible.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">400 Level.</span> Courses designed for the advanced student or the student with a special interest. English majors must take at least 6 credit hours at the 400 level.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">800/900 Level.</span> Graduate courses. Graduate standing and at least 18 hours of undergraduate course work in English are prerequisite to courses at the 800- and 900-level. Advanced undergraduates may register in 800- and 900-level courses with the permission of the Dean of Graduate Studies, provided that these hours do not count towards their baccalaureate requirements.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> The advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy are offered. For details see the <span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span>.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<ul>
<li>39 hours with a minimum of 18 credit hours at the 300 level and above, 6 hours of which must be at the 400 level. </li>
</ul>

<p class="header-paragraph">The major also requires a minimum number of these 39 hours in different areas or courses:</p>

<p class="MsoNormal"><span class="requirement-bold">A.</span><span class="reqdesc"> ENGL 200 (3)</span></p>

<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 11.5pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">B. Writing (3) </span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 11.5pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL 251, ENGL 252, ENGL 253, ENGL 254, ENGL 354, or ENGL 454 </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;"></span></p>

<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="color: blue;">C. Theory (3)</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL 270, ENGL 275, ENGL 373, ENGL 375, ENGL 376, ENGL 457A, ENGL 475, ENGL 475A, ENGL 478, or ENGL 480 </span></p>

<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">D. Historical Contexts (9) </span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">At least 3 credits must be in a pre-1800 literature, noted with an asterisk</span></p>

<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;"><span style="mso-tab-count: 1;"> </span>Historical Surveys (3) </span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;"><span style="mso-tab-count: 1;"> </span>One of the following: </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">230*, </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">231, </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">260*, </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">261</span></p>

<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;"><span style="mso-tab-count: 1;"> </span>Historical Focus: (6)</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;"><span style="mso-tab-count: 1;"> </span>One course from each of the following categories</span></p>

<p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-left: 1.0in;"><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">Early Literatures</span></span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-left: 1.0in;"><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">244E*, </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">305A, </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">311,</span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;"> ENGL</span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;"> 330*, </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">330E*, </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">332, </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">362*, </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">363*, </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">364*</span></p>

<p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-left: 1.0in;"><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">Recent Literatures</span></span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-left: 1.0in;"><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">205, </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">244, </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">301B, </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">302, </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">302A, </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">331, </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">333, </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">365, </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL </span><span style="mso-bidi-font-size: 10.0pt; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">405E </span></p>


<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="color: blue;">E. Diversity and Global Awareness (6)</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><span class="reqvalue"><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">At least 3 credits must be in an Ethnic Studies course, noted with asterisk</span></span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: blue;">ENGL <span class="reqvalue">212, </span>ENGL <span class="reqvalue">215, </span>ENGL <span class="reqvalue">243, </span>ENGL <span class="reqvalue">244*, </span>ENGL <span class="reqvalue">244A*, </span>ENGL <span class="reqvalue">244E*, </span>ENGL <span class="reqvalue">245A*, </span>ENGL <span class="reqvalue">245J, </span>ENGL <span class="reqvalue">245N*, </span>ENGL <span class="reqvalue">315A, </span>ENGL <span class="reqvalue">315B, </span>ENGL <span class="reqvalue">317, </span>ENGL <span class="reqvalue">344*, </span>ENGL <span class="reqvalue">344B*, </span>ENGL <span class="reqvalue">344D*, </span>ENGL <span class="reqvalue">345D*, </span>ENGL <span class="reqvalue">345N*, ENGL 349 </span></span><span class="reqvalue"></span></p>

<p class="MsoNormal"><span class="requirement-bold"><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman';">F.</span></span><span class="reqdesc"><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> Capstone Course</span></span><span class="reqvalue"><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> (3)</span></span><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman';"></span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman';">ENGL 487</span></p>

<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="color: blue;">G. Concentration or electives (12)</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="color: blue;">(12 hours at the 300- or 400- level)</span></p>


<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="color: blue;">TOTAL CREDITS 39</span></p>

<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="color: blue; background: yellow; mso-highlight: yellow;">Note: A single course may only be applied to one category.</span><span style="color: blue;"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span></p>

<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required from time to time to complete written exit surveys and to compile portfolios of selected written work in major courses. All such work will be assessed in ways that assure student anonymity.</p>
<p class="title-1">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span></p>
<p>Concentrations or electives. Students interested in particular areas of study, with particular career goals, or who desire to attend graduate school, should consider developing a concentration to support those interests or aspirations. Students select four courses at the 300 or 400 level that concentrate on a particular area of study.. Students may choose one of the department's recommended areas of concentration, or they may design their own concentration in consultation with the advisor and appropriate faculty members. Recommended areas of concentration include: </p>
<p>Creative writing </p>
<p>Composition and Rhetoric </p>
<p>Digital Humanities </p>
<p>Environmental and Place studies </p>
<p>Ethnic studies </p>
<p>Editing and Publishing </p>
<p>Film studies</p>
<p>Literary &amp; Critical Theory</p>
<p>Medieval and Renaissance studies </p>
<p>Women's and Gender studies </p>
<p>19th Century studies </p>

<p>In some cases, an interdisciplinary concentration may include a course from another department. Students wishing to develop a concentration are encouraged to consult with the English Undergraduate Advising Office (201 Andrews) early in their program.</p>

<p>Students who do not wish to pursue a concentration may choose any four 300 or 400 level courses as electives.</p>
<p><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span></p>
<p class="title-1">Career Preparation</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">The English department is committed to preparing majors for the job market. We strongly encourage all majors to enroll in ENGL 300 Professional Practices for English Majors during their sophomore or junior year, and to consider taking advantage of UCARE, internships, educational abroad, volunteering and other career development opportunities.</p>
<p class="title-1">Minor Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">English majors are required to complete one Plan A minor or two Plan B minors or a second major.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">A student may apply up to 6 hours of Pass/No Pass credit toward a major in English without securing permission; and a student may apply up to 3 hours of Pass/No Pass credit toward a minor in English, subject to the approval of the department granting the major. To secure the necessary approval, students may obtain request forms from the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</p>
<p class="basic-text">No more than 6 Pass/No Pass hours can count for the English major. No course can count for more than one requirement.</p>
<p class="title-1">Course Level Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">No more than 6 hours of Independent Directed Reading (including internships) will count for the major. Neither independent study taken at the 400 level (ENGL 497) nor an internship (ENGL 495) will count for the 400-level requirement for the major. Students taking 6 hours of ENGL 399H may count for the major no more than 3 additional hours of Independent Directed Reading. No more than 3 hours of internship (ENGL 495) will count for the English major.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A.</span> 18 hrs of English at the 200 level and above; 9 hrs must be above 299; of these 9 hrs, 3 hrs must be above 399.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan B.</span> 12 hrs of English at the 200 level and above; 6 hrs above 299.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">No more than 3 hours of Pass/No Pass may count for a minor in English.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>