<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Entrepreneurship Minor 16-17.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="entrepreneurship-minor-16-17">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Entrepreneurship Minor</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Business Administration</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Entrepreneurship Minor</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 12 or 18</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> </p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold"><strong>Faculty:</strong> Nelson, Titus, Waterson, Welbourne</span></p>


<p class="basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 107%; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-fareast-theme-font: major-fareast; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;">The minor in Entrepreneurship is targeted toward students who might not traditionally interact with the College of Business Administration and the local entrepreneurial community.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>The goal of the minor is to teach non-CBA students how to create successful businesses based on the expertise developed in their majors.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>Two tracks will be offered: one for business majors that emphasizes core entrepreneurship courses; the other for non-business majors which covers basic business courses along with the entrepreneurship core. These tracks allow the student to tailor the minor to their needs according to the type of business they plan to pursue.</span></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing"><strong><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Program Structure</span></strong></p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing">Students will enroll in one of two tracks:</p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing"><strong>Non-CBA Student Track –</strong> In addition to the core entrepreneurship curriculum, students on this track will take basic courses in finance, accounting, and marketing. This track is intended for students unfamiliar with the foundational business practices.</p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing"><strong>CBA Student Track –</strong> Students taking this track will complete the core entrepreneurship courses offered by the Center. This track is intended for students majoring in fields housed within CBA.</p>

<p class="MsoNoSpacing"><strong><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Core Courses</span></strong></p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing"><strong>Non-CBA Student Track (9 hours Entrepreneurship + 9 hours Business for non-majors)</strong></p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing">ENTR 321 - Introduction to Entrepreneurship and Innovation</p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing">ENTR 421 - Initiating and Managing Entrepreneurial Growth</p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing">ENTR 423 - Business Plan Development and Decision Making</p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing">ACCT 200 - Accounting for Business Decisions</p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing">MRKT 300 - Contemporary Marketing <strong>or </strong>ECON 200 - Economic Essentials and Issues</p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing">FINA 300 - Financial Decision Making</p>

<p class="MsoNoSpacing"><strong>CBA-Student Track (12 hours Entrepreneurship)</strong></p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing">ENTR 321 - Introduction to Entrepreneurship and Innovation</p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing">ENTR 421 - Initiating and Managing Entrepreneurial Growth</p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing">ENTR 422 - Managing Rapid Growth and Change</p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing">ENTR 423 - Business Plan Development and Decision Making</p>

<p class="MsoNoSpacing">Credits earned using the Pass/No Pass option do not count towards this minor.</p>

            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>