<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Family Science 16-17.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="family-science-16-17">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Family Science</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Family Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Judy Hofeldt</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Human Development and Family Science provides a comprehensive program grounded in family science theory, research, and professional practice and application for individuals to work with children and families. This career path provides students with knowledge and intervention skills that will assist them in helping to prevent and remedy interpersonal problems experienced by individuals in their family relationships, building on the family’s strengths. In addition, Human Development and Family Science will prepare students for graduate school (e.g. family science, family therapy, social work, counseling psychology, and law), or for employment in human services agencies or programs.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Program Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Degree at a Glance</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">ACE Requirements 30-43</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 1. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 2. ALEC 102, COMM 210, COMM 283, COMM 286 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 3. ECON 215, EDPS 459, MATH 104, MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 203, MATH 208, STAT 218 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 4. ANTH 242 &amp; ANTH 242L, CHEM 105, CHEM 109, CHEM 110, CHEM 113, ENTO 115 &amp; ENTO 116, GEOG 155, GEOL 101, GEOL 103, LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L, LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L, METR 100, NRES 108, PHYS 141, PHYS 142, PHYS 151 &amp; PHYS 153, PHYS 260 &amp; PHYS 262, TMFD 206 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 5. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 6. CYAF 160 <span class="requirement-ital">(CYAF Core Requirements)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 7. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 8. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 9. CYAF 495A or other ACE 9 course <span class="requirement-ital">(CYAF Core Requirements)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 10. CYAF 497D, <span class="requirement-ital">3 hrs (CYAF Core Req.) or CYAF 497A, 12 hrs (Child Serv. Track)  </span> 3-12</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-1"><strong>CYAF Core Requirements</strong> 24</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF 222, CYAF 280, CYAF 285, CYAF 382, (CYAF 446 or CYAF 458), CYAF 460, CYAF 471, CYAF 488 (3 hr ea)</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-1">Choose one of the following Tracks: 9-18</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><strong><span class="requirement-underline">Approved Minor Track</span> </strong></span>18</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Choose from:</span> Anthropology, communication studies, education, gerontology, global studies, leadership and communications, psychology or sociology</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><strong><span class="requirement-underline">Research Track</span></strong></span> <span class="requirement-ital">(<em>recommended for interest in graduate studies</em>)</span> 9-13</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> <span class="requirement-ital">A cumulative 3.5 GPA is required for this track.</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 498 3-6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Choose two from</span>: PSYC 350 (4 hr), PSYC 450, EDPS 459, SOCI 205, SOCI 206 (3 hr ea) 6-7</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><strong><span style="text-decoration: underline;"><span class="requirement-underline">Child Services Track</span> </span></strong><span class="requirement-ital">(r<em>ecommended for interest in child studies</em>)</span> 18</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 270 &amp; CYAF 270L, CYAF 271 &amp; CYAF 271L, CYAF 371 &amp; CYAF 371L, CYAF 458, CYAF 474, SPED 201 (3 hr ea)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Electives 35-57</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 120</p>
<p class="title-1">ACE Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their advisor prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for CYAF courses. This also applies to any courses used as substitutions for CYAF courses.</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">All CYAF courses, and any substitutions for CYAF courses, must be taken for a grade (not Pass/No Pass).</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>
<p class="title-1">Criminal History Background Check Requirement</p>

<p>The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS) has the responsibility to ensure that all students who interact with children of all ages, served by schools or other public or private agencies meet a high level of personal, professional and ethical behavior. These CEHS students must complete an official criminal history background check through the CEHS vendor, prior to participating in a field experience or internship. Students are responsible for the cost of any required criminal history background check and will be required to complete one upon admission to a program and/or an initial field placement. Eighteen months after the initial background check has been completed, undergraduate students are required to complete the CEHS self-disclosure report, a self-report collected by the college. Graduate students will be required to complete the self-disclosure report at the same time as the initial background check is conducted and again eighteen months later. If more than three years have elapsed after the initial background check is conduced, CEHS students must complete an additional background check prior to participating in a field experience or internship.  Students are responsible for the cost of additional background checks.</p>
<p>Students with felony or any misdemeanor charges or convictions, as reported on the background check, may be contacted by the College. Depending upon the frequency and severity of the charges and/or convictions, students may be required to meet with the Director of Professional Experiences. <strong>If any new charges or convictions are acquired after a background check has been completed, students are required to report those to the Director of Professional Experiences within two weeks after the event occurs.</strong> Failure to disclose any new information concerning one's criminal history can lead to removal from the program. Continued participation in school or community field experiences in the College will be based on the type and number of convictions, the recency of those occurrences, and whether they violate the requirements of the Nebraska Department of Education and/or the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services. If the convictions are deemed to be serious in nature, a student may be prohibited from participating in a field experience in a pre-school, school or public agency setting.  The student may then be referred to the department chair for further disciplinary action.</p>
<p><strong>Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</strong></p>
<p>Students planning to enter professions in education or the human sciences must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and others.  Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences requires that its students show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act in a responsible manner. Students must consider how the College, the profession, an employer, or the community perceive or evaluate the impact of any questionable behavior.  Students' success in their profession is impaired by taking risks that are unacceptable for children, demonstrating a lack of professionalism and good judgment, and showing disregard for one's personal reputation or the integrity of the College. </p>
<p>The College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to evaluate student fitness for the profession and deny entry to or dismiss a student from any program if, through the reasonable exercise of the judgment of its Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences, the College determines that the student's behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or represents risk to young persons. Such behaviors shall be adequate foundation to deny the student's participation in any practicum or field experience to protect the interests and safety of children. The consequences of unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will depend upon the unique circumstances involved.</p>
<p><strong>Appeal to the Dean</strong></p>
<p>Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences with respect to a criminal behavior or unprofessional behavior, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing, within ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student's written appeal shall clearly explain the basis for the appeal. The Dean will review the student's basis for appeal and is authorized but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student's written appeal. The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possible, but in no case longer than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences a written decision, which shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review with the University of Nebraska.</p>
<p><span class="basic-text-bold"></span></p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>