<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Global Leadership Minor 16-17.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="global-leadership-minor-16-17">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Global Leadership Minor</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Business Administration</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Global Leadership Minor</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 12</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> John Osiri</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair and Advisor: </span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Faculty:</span> Ibrayeva (management), Osiri (international programs)<span class="faculty-list-bold"></span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt; line-height: 107%; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; color: #5b5b5a; mso-ansi-language: EN; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;"></span></p>
<p class="basic-text">The global leadership minor from the College of Business Administration (CBA) prepares students to be able to identify global opportunities to create, expand, or re-energize organizations and initiatives. The global issues course exposes students to human conditions and problems related to development, entrepreneurship, environment, population, and poverty. The leadership in a global context course focuses on international management from a U.S. perspective, and global leadership and the culture map is an experiential course where students learn how to launch an international venture or project while developing cultural competency. The project is interdisciplinary and may draw from education, engineering, science, social science, and humanities and is set in a particular cultural context. In addition to taking all three aforementioned courses, students are required to earn 3 credit hours while studying abroad on a CBA-approved program. The study abroad trip will provide students excellent global immersion experience and first-hand cultural context in a country of their choice. The minor is available to both business and nonbusiness students.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Requirements 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSAD 320 Global Issues 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">(Development, population, poverty, and entrepreneurship issues.)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MNGT 414 Leadership in a Global Context 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSAD 420 Global Leadership &amp; the Culture Map 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">(Strategies and structures of multinational companies and in-depth focus on cross-cultural dimensions among countries. Taught from an international perspective, not taught from the perspective of U.S. enterprises. Additionally, students will work in teams to propose an international company expansion or launch an international venture.)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSAD 491, ECON 466 or ECON 467 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">(Credit associated with a study abroad experience, or similar study abroad credit.)</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">By completing the 12 credit hours above, a UNL student can earn our global leadership minor. The minor is available to CBA and non-CBA UNL students. All courses will be offered online.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>