<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>International Business 16-17.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="international-business-16-17">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">International Business</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Business Administration</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> International Business</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 hours for degree (27-35 hours for the major)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.5 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No - See Global Leadership</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> John Osiri</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in international business study the business practices of other nations and learn how international trade laws affect the world economy. A background in international business will help students become a better member of the management team of any corporation. From banks to manufacturing firms, an increasing number of industries need professionals who understand the world’s business environment. Import and export firms, agricultural commodities firms, and government and non-government agencies may specifically seek international expertise. It is suggested that students begin thinking about where they want to study abroad and their language and culture courses during the freshman year. Upper-level course work and education abroad experience will be done sometime in the junior or senior year.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Because the nature of the major requires studying abroad and careful selection of course work to complement and count for appropriate requirements, students are strongly encouraged to consult with their advisor or a staff member in the Undergraduate Programs Office.</p>
<p class="basic-text">In order for students to be successful in international business after graduation, they should plan to do the following as part of their university experience:</p>
<ul>
<li>Internships related to international business</li>
<li>Involvement with international student groups</li>
<li>Language study</li>
<li>Courses that will provide them with greater awareness and knowledge of global issues</li>
<li>Education abroad experiences</li>
</ul>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>
<p class="title-1">Major/Department Admission</p>
<p class="basic-text">Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University Admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p><strong>Core Requirements</strong></p>
<ul></ul>
<p><strong>Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M)</strong></p>
<p>In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 27-35 hours of course work for the major. The broad components of an International Business major are:</p>
<p>1. Complete 15 credit hours of business courses selected from one of the following specialization Options:</p>

<ul>
<li>Economics</li>
<li>Management</li>
<li>Finance</li>
<li>Marketing</li>
<li>Supply Chain Management</li>
<li>General International Business</li>
</ul>
<p> 2. Complete 12 hours of international business courses from the specified list for the selected specialization Option.<br /> 3. Fulfill a global immersion requirement by completing a study abroad experience and the equivalent of at least 8 credit hours of foreign language, which may be completed during the study abroad experience. It is possible that the language course work can be counted towards electives or left untranscripted.<br /> 4. Participate in an international internship/practicum experience.<br /></p>
<p> As noted in the College Degree Requirements section, all course work for the major must be taken for a  grade. No course work for this major may be double counted with any other business major or minor.</p>

<p class="MsoNormal" style="mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; line-height: normal; mso-outline-level: 3;"><strong>Specific Major Requirements</strong></p>

<p> A. Specialization Options: To gain expertise in a functional area of business, IB majors must choose one specialization Option, and must complete the required courses for that Option. Required courses for each specialization Option are shown below.</p>
<p>B. International Business Courses: IB majors must take at least 12 credit hours from the IB course list associated with the selected specialization Option, including a required 3 credit hour integrated IB course (BSAD 398 Global Leadership and the Culture Map, described below). Up to 6 credits of BSAD 491 may be applied to the International Business Courses requirement. Students with interests in specific regions or countries should consider pursuing a regionally-focused minor (e.g. minor in African Studies or Asian Studies) and/or take BSAD 491 courses that focus in their region of interest (e.g. BSAD 491 - Doing Business in China)</p>

<p> C. BSAD 398 (Global Leadership and the Culture Map) is required for IB majors. This course will connect functional areas to global contexts. The course will cover international  management from a strategic perspective with an in-depth focus on cross-cultural dimensions among countries. This course is taught from an international perspective, not  taught from the perspective of US enterprises. </p>
<p> D. IB students are required to complete a global immersion experience comprised of a semester abroad. One semester abroad must be at least 13 weeks. This requirement may be  met by two shorter study abroad experiences totaling 13 weeks.</p>
<p> E. Students must earn the equivalent of a minimum of 8 credit hours of foreign language credit. For many CBA-sponsored study abroad options, foreign language classes will be  taught in the host country and the cost of the foreign language courses will be included in the study abroad program costs. Alternately, a student can complete a minimum of 8  credit hours of foreign language at UNL. International students are not allowed to use their native language to meet the foreign language requirement. International students  may use English as their foreign language if English is not their native language by taking an equivalent of 8 credit hours of English language beyond their required English  language courses. This additional language training must be aimed at improving written and/or spoken English proficiency. As such, the equivalencies may be a combination of  credit or non-credit bearing courses, ESL courses, certificate programs, and/or structured conversational courses and programs. Equivalencies will be determined by assigning 1  credit hour to every 15 hours of language training. Training may be undertaken either at UNL or at a different institution, but should be pre-approved by the IB Director whose  office will maintain a list of suggested courses and programs.</p>
<p>F. IB students are required to complete an international internship and/or practicum experience, which may be a paid or non-paid project-based practicum or traditional internship,  and must be approved by the IB director. Students may take the initiative in arranging the internship or seek help through the IB program office or the CBA Career Services.</p>

<p><strong>Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</strong></p>
<p>IB majors must declare one of these specializations as a formal Option within their major. Specialization Options are available in economics, management, finance, marketing, supply chain management, and general international business. Specific requirements foreach specialization Option and the associated international business courses are shown below. </p>
<p> I. IB with Economics as a specialization Option</p>
<p>ECON 311 Intermediate Macroeconomics<br />ECON 312 Intermediate Microeconomics<br />ECON 321 Introduction to International Economics<br />+ECON 421 International Trade<br />+ECON 422 International Financ</p>
<p>International Business Courses:</p>
<p>Required Course:</p>
<p>BSAD 398 (Global Leadership and the Culture Map)<br />Select 9 credit hours from the following courses:<br />*MRKT 453 International Marketing<br />*SCMS 439 Global Sourcing and Distribution<br />MNGT 414 Leadership in a Global Contex<br />SCMS 459 Global Information Systems<br />FINA 450 International Financial Management<br />+ECON 423 Economics of Less Developed Countriea<br />BSAD 398 (Global Issues)<br />BSAD 491 International Studies in Business and Economics<br /><br />*indicates a course requires a prerequisite that is not in the business core (BCI) or the IB program of study</p>

<p> +indicates a course that is not offered every year</p>
<p>II. IB with Management as a specialization Option</p>
<p> MNGT 360 Organizational Behavior<br /> MNGT/ENTR 321 Entrepreneurship and Innovation in Organizations<br /> MNGT 361 Human Resource Management<br /> MNGT 365 Diversity in Organizations<br /> MNGT 412 Negotiating and Conflict Management</p>
<p>International Business Courses:</p>
<p>Required Course:</p>
<p>BSAD 398 (Global Leadership and the Culture Map)<br />Select 9 credit hours from the following courses:<br />*MRKT 453 International Marketing<br />*SCMS 439 Global Sourcing and Distribution<br />MNGT 414 Leadership in a Global Context<br />SCMS 459 Global Information Systems<br />+ECON 422 International Finance<br />FINA 450 International Financial Management<br />ECON 321 Introduction to International Economics<br />*+ECON 421 International Trade<br />+ECON 423 Economics of Less Developed Countries<br />BSAD 398 (Global Issues)<br />BSAD 491 International Studies in Business and Economics</p>
<p>*indicates a course requires a prerequisite that is not in the business core (BCI) or the IB program of study</p>
<p>+indicates a course that is not offered every year</p>

<p>III. IB with Finance as a specialization Option</p>
<p> FINA 363 Investment Principles<br /> FINA 365 Financial Institutions and Markets<br /> FINA 367 Fixed Income Investments<br /> FINA 450 International Financial Management<br /> FINA 461 Advanced Finance</p>
<p>International Business Courses:</p>
<p>Required Course:</p>
<p>BSAD 398 (Global Leadership and the Culture Map)<br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">Select 9 credit hours from the following courses:</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">* MRKT 453 International Marketing</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">*SCMS 439 Global Sourcing and Distribution</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">MNGT 414 Leadership in a Global Context</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">SCMS 459 Global Information Systems</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">+ECON 422 International Finance</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">ECON 321 Introduction to International Economics</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">*+ECON 421 International Trade</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">+ECON 423 Economics of Less Developed Countries</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">BSAD 398 (Global Issues)</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">BSAD 491 International Studies in Business and Economics</span></p>
<p>*indicates a course requires a prerequisite that is not in the business core (BCI) or the IB program of study<br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">+indicates a course that is not offered every year</span></p>

<p>IV. IB with Marketing as a specialization Option</p>
<p> MRKT 345 Market Research<br /> MRKT 346 Market Channels Management<br /> MRKT 347 Marketing Communication Strategy<br /> MRKT 453 International Marketing<br /> MRKT 442 Marketing Management</p>
<p>International Business Courses:</p>
<p>Required Course:</p>
<p>BSAD 398 (Global Leadership and the Culture Map)<br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">Select 9 credit hours from the following courses:</span><br />*SCMS 439 Global Sourcing and Distribution<br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">MNGT 414 Leadership in a Global Context</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">SCMS 459 Global Information Systems</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">+ECON 422 International Finance</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">FINA 450 International Financial Management</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">ECON 321 Introduction to International Economics</span><br />*+ECON 421 International Trade<br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">+ECON 423 Economics of Less Developed Countries</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">BSAD 398 (Global Issues)</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">BSAD 491 International Studies in Business and Economics</span><br /><br />*indicates a course requires a prerequisite that is not in the business core (BCI) or the IB program of study</p>
<p>+indicates a course that is not offered every year</p>

<p>V. IB with Supply Chain Management as a specialization Option</p>

<p> SCMS 335 Supply Chain Decision Making Models<br /> SCMS 431 Enterprise Management Systems<br /> SCMS 432 Supply Chain Planning and Control Systems<br /> SCMS 439 Global Sourcing and Distribution<br /> SCMS/MRKT 346 Market Channels Management</p>
<p>International Business Courses:</p>
<p>Required Course:</p>
<p>BSAD 398 (Global Leadership and the Culture Map)<br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">Select 9 credit hours from the following courses:</span><br />*MRKT 453 International Marketing<br />SCMS 459 Global Information Systems<br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">+ECON 422 International Finance</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">FINA 450 International Financial Management</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">ECON 321 Introduction to International Economics</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">*+ECON 421 International Trade</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">+ECON 423 Economics of Less Developed Countries</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">MNGT 414 Leadership in a Global Context</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">BSAD 398 (Global Issues)</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">BSAD 491 International Studies in Business and Economics</span><br /><br /></p>
<p>*indicates a course requires a prerequisite that is not in the business core (BCI) or the IB program of study<br /><br />+indicates a course that is not offered every year</p>

<p>VI. IB with General International Business as a specialization Option</p>
<p> ACCT 301 Using Accounting Information<br /> ECON 311 Intermediate Microeconomics or ECON312 Intermediate Macroeconomics<br /> FINA363 Investment Principles<br /> MNGT360 Organizational Behavior<br /> SCMS/MRKT 346 Market Channels Management</p>

<p> International Business Courses:</p>
<p>Required Course:</p>
<p>BSAD 398 (Global Leadership and the Culture Map)<br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">Select 9 credit hours from the following courses:</span><br />*MRKT 453 International Marketing<br />*SCMS 439 Global Sourcing and Distribution<br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">MNGT 414 Leadership in a Global Context</span></p>
<p><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">SCMS 459 Global Information Systems</span><br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">+ECON 422 International Finance</span><br />*+ECON 421 International Trade<br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">+ECON 423 Economics of Less Developed Countries</span></p>
<p>BSAD 398 (Global Issues)<br /><span style="color: #333333; background-color: initial;">BSAD 491 International Studies in Business and Economics</span></p>


<p>*indicates a course requires a prerequisite (in bold-face) that is not in the business core (BCI) or the IB program of study<br />+indicates a course that is not offered every year</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style="margin: 0in 0in 0.0001pt 1in;"><br /><br /></p>
<p><strong>Minor Requirements</strong></p>

<p class="MsoNormal" style="mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; line-height: normal;">While not required, students should consider a minor in language and/or consider options in other departments related to the country of interest (i.e., history, political science, global studies, Asian studies, ethnic or European studies, Latin American studies, etc.)</p>

<ul>
<li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; line-height: normal; mso-list: l3 level1 lfo2; tab-stops: list .5in;">Refer to Arts and Science minors for options and requirements which may compliment the geographical area and/or language of interest.</li>
<li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; line-height: normal; mso-list: l3 level1 lfo2; tab-stops: list .5in;">Those interested in pursuing a language minor may be able to double count NBR 4–Ace 5. Students will need to compare the requirements for their minor with the ACE course list to determine applicability.</li>
<li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; line-height: normal; mso-list: l3 level1 lfo2; tab-stops: list .5in;">In any of these instances, credit hours count only ONCE; student still needs 120 hours for the degree.</li>
<li class="MsoNormal" style="mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; line-height: normal; mso-list: l3 level1 lfo2; tab-stops: list .5in;">Be sure to distinguish differences between Plan A &amp; Plan B minors (as Plan A requires completion of only ONE minor, while Plan B requires completion of an additional minor).</li>
</ul>

<p class="MsoNormal"><strong>Ace Courses for IB Majors</strong></p>
<p>Students are advised to be strategic in taking their ACE courses. Take your courses to satisfy your general curiosity, to learn something about an area or a region where you want to or may do business, or to strengthen your global or functional strength.</p>
<p>ACE 4 – Science</p>
<p>Suggested courses that relates to current and future global business activities are:</p>
<p>ANTH 142 Basics of Biological Anthropology </p>
<p>ANTH 232 Introduction to Prehistory<br /> ASTR 103 Descriptive Astronomy<br /> ASTR 117 Life in Universe<br /> GEOG 155 Elements of Physical Geography<br /> GEOL 100 Introduction to Geology<br /> GEOL 103 Historical Geology<br /> GEOL 120 Geology of National Parks and Monuments<br /> METR 180 Environment, Energy, and Climate Change<br /> NRES 108 Earth's Natural Resource Systems Laboratory<br /> GEOL 109 Oceanography<br /> GEOL 115 The Earth’s Energy Resources<br /> PHYS 260 Liberal Arts Physics: Matter and Motion<br /> PHYS 261 Liberal Arts Physics: Atoms and Fields<br /> POLS 250 Genetics, Brains, and Politics</p>
<p>For example, take ASTR 117 Life in the Universe to ponder upon how humans might work together to explore planets and “interplanetary” business; take ANTH 232 Introduction to prehistory to learn how cities arose around the world, and take POLS 250 Genetics, Brains, and Politics to strengthen a functional area in management.</p>
<p>ACE 5 - Humanities</p>
<p>Take any course that piques your mind, relates to a region of interest, or strengthens your functional area. For example, take ENGL/HIST 277 Being Human in a Digital Age to complement an interest in e-commerce or supply chain; take ENGL 311 Revolution and Romanticism, if you are interested in doing business in Italy, and take History of Design to strengthen a functional area in economics.</p>
<p>ACE 7 – Study of Arts</p>
<p>Take any course that piques your mind, relates to a region of interest, or strengthens your functional area. For example, take ENGL 170 Beginning Creative Writing to complement a business writing interest; take MUSIC 280 World Music to learn about the music cultures of parts of Asia, Africa, and Europe, and take ENGL 439 Film Directors to strengthen a functional area in management functional area.</p>
<p>ACE 9 – Human Diversity and Global Awareness</p>
<p>Several business international courses count for ACE 9 credit, or take any course that piques your mind, relates to a region of interest, or strengthens your functional area. For example, consider COMM 211 Intercultural Communication to complement a business communication interest; take ETHN 203 Introduction to Africa if you are interested in doing business in Africa, or take MNGT 365 Diversity in Organizations to better understand how to manage a diverse workforce.</p>


<p><strong>Electives</strong></p>
<p>See College Degree Requirements–Electives for additional options/restrictions regarding elective credit for the degree.</p>

<ul></ul>
<div style="width: 1px; height: 1px; overflow: hidden; position: fixed; top: 10px; left: 10px;"></div>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">Enrollment in most upper-level business courses usually requires completion of an introductory course in that major area as well as other prerequisites. Refer to course descriptions EARLY in the program to plan for completion of specific course prerequisites.</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Same as College grade rules.</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">Same as College Pass/No Pass limits.</p>
<p class="title-2">GPA Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">Same as College GPA requirements.</p>
<p class="title-1">Course Level Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">Enrollment in language courses above the 101 level requires appropriate placement on the Modern Language Placement exam.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>

<p>Students interested in a minor related to International Business should consider a minor in Global Leadership.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>