<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Nutrition &amp; Health Sciences: Community Health and Wellness Option 16-17.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="nutrition-health-sciences-community-health-and-wellness-option-16-17">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Nutrition &amp; Health Sciences: Community Health and Wellness Option</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Nutrition &amp; Health Sciences: Community Health and Wellness Option</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Victoria Fisher</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span></p>
<p class="basic-text">The Community Health and Wellness option is designed for those students interested in health education and health promotion. Graduates are prepared to promote healthy lifestyles and enhance the quality of life for individuals and communities while working in a variety of settings to include worksite and health promotion programs, schools, public health agencies, nonprofit health organizations, and voluntary health agencies (American Heart Association, American Cancer Society, etc.) This option is also appropriate for students interested in pursuing graduate programs in such areas as public health, health policy, and other related areas. Upon completion of the option, students will be eligible to sit for the Certified Health Education Specialist (CHES) exam./ins></p>
<p class="title-2">Degree at a Glance</p>
<p class="basic-text">All courses must be taken for a grade.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Requirements 35</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 1. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 2. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 3. *STAT 218 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> *EDPS 459 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 4. *CHEM 109 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 5. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 6. *PSYC 181 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 7. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 8. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 9. *NUTR 253 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> *SOCI 217 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> *COMM 211 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> *PSYC 330 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 10. *NUTR 487 6</p>
<p class="asterisk">* Signifies where a course counts toward both major and ACE requirements.</p>
<p class="basic-text">< Only grades of C or above count towards graduation requirements for NUTR courses.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Professional Requirements 43</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NUTR 100, NUTR 250, NUTR 252, NUTR 256, NUTR 302, NUTR 352, NUTR 356, NUTR 400, NUTR 404, NUTR 406, NUTR 407, NUTR 408, (3 hrs ea) 36  </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NUTR 150 2 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NUTR 344 4 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Supporting Courses 21-24</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 101 or higher 2-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">SOCI 252 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> SOCI 353 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 111 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 213  &amp; BIOS 213L  4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 110 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">LIFE 120  &amp; LIFE 120L  4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Selectives 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> COMM 271, COMM 354, COMM 370, CYAF 446, PSYC 265, PSYC 289, PSYC 428, PSYC 471, SOCI 252, SOCI 325, SOCI 353, SOCI 443, GERO 200 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Electives 9-12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 120</p>
<p class="title-1">ACE Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within a program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their advisor prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students' academic program.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>