<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Pre-Veterinary Medicine 16-17.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="pre-veterinary-medicine-16-17">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Pre-Veterinary Medicine</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Pre-Veterinary Medicine</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Non-degree seeking only</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 60-70</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> Usually 2.50</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Michael Carlson</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Donald L. Reynolds</span>, School of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, 120C Vet Basic Sciences</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Head:</span> Larry Berger, Department of Animal Science, C203 Animal Sciences</p>

<p style="margin: 0in 0in 10pt;"><span style="line-height: 115%; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Individuals wishing to pursue a career as a veterinarian must earn a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) degree or its equivalent from an accredited school or college of veterinary medicine (S/CVM).<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>Qualification for admission to a S/CVM includes the successful completion of a pre-veterinary medicine program (PVET).<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>The PVET program includes academic and non-academic requirements.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>This listing focuses on academic requirements.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>Non-academic requirements may be found on individual S/CVM websites.</span></span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: medium;"> </span><span style="line-height: 115%; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Academic requirements are published on individual S/CVM websites, which include specific undergraduate courses required for admission and PVET academic performance standards.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>College-level courses that meet PVET requirements are specified by each S/CVM.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>The focus of the UNL PVET program is on courses required for admission to the Professional Program in Veterinary Medicine (PPVM), a cooperative program between the University of Nebraska–Lincoln and Iowa State University.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>However, it may be modified to help a student qualify for admission to any S/CVM.</span></span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: medium;"> </span><span style="line-height: 115%; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;"></span></span><span style="line-height: 115%; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">The UNL PVET program is not a degree-granting program.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>Expect it to take 2-3 years to complete it.</span></span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: medium;"> </span><span style="line-height: 115%; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">Pass/No Pass credits are not accepted.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>PVET courses must be taken for a grade, unless the course is only offered Pass/No Pass.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"></span></span></span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: medium;"></span><span style="line-height: 115%; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">A grade of a C or better is necessary to fulfill the PVET requirement.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>If a course is repeated to obtain a higher grade or to earn a grade of C or better, the average of all grades earned for that course will be included in the admission assessment.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span></span></span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: medium;"> </span><span style="line-height: 115%; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;"></span></span><span style="line-height: 115%; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;">The acceptability of AP, CLEP, or IB earned credits varies by S/CVM and each S/CVM publishes its policy on its website.</span></span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: medium;"> </span><span style="line-height: 115%; font-size: 10pt;"><span style="font-family: Calibri;"></span></span><span style="line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10pt; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;">Each PVET student is encouraged to pursue a baccalaureate degree in a degree program of his or her choice concurrent with pursuing the PVET program.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>Individuals with a baccalaureate degree need only to complete the PVET program requirements to qualify for admission to a S/CVM.</span>.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">PPVM Pre-Veterinary Medicine Core</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> What follows fulfills the PVET requirements for the Professional Program in Veterinary Medicine (PPVM), a cooperative program between the University of Nebraska–Lincoln and Iowa State University. Criteria for admission to that program may be found on the PPVM website at http://vetmed.unl.edu/prospectivestudents. Students planning to attend other veterinary schools must check with those schools to determine if there are any differences between the other veterinary school and the PPVM PVET requirements.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">College Integrative Course 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRI 103 Introduction to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems (NRES 103) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Veterinary Science 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">VBMS 101 Success in Veterinary Science 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Natural Science Courses 38-40</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Life Sciences 8</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L Fundamentals of Biology I &amp; Lab (ACE 4) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L Fundamentals of Biology II &amp; Lab (ACE 4) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span style="color: #333333;">NOTE: BIOS 101/101L and BIOS 112/112L or their equivalents will not satisfy this requirement.</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Genetics 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AGRO 315 Genetics <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BIOS 206 General Genetics 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Anatomy and Physiology 4-8</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Select two from the following options:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">Option 1: ASCI 240 Anatomy &amp; Physiology of Domestic Animals 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">Option 2: BIOS 213 Human Physiology 3 and BIOS 214 Human Anatomy 5 or VBMS 407 Introduction to Veterinary Anatomy 4</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-2">Chemistry 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I (ACE 4) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II (ACE 4) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 251 Organic Chemistry I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 252 Organic Chemistry II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I Lab or CHEM 254 Organic Chemistry II Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Physics 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Select from:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHYS 141 Elementary General Physics I (ACE 4) 5 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 221 General Physics I &amp; Lab 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NOTE: PHYS 151 and MSYM 109/109L do not meet the requirement</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Biological Chemistry 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Select from:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOC 321 Elements of Biochemistry 3 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOC 431 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism (BIOS 431/CHEM 431) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Mathematics and Statistics 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Five credit hours beyond MATH 101 College Algebra</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Select from:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 102 Trigonometry 2 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 103 College Algebra &amp; Trigonometry 5  <span class="requirement-ital">(only 2 credit hours apply)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 104 Applied Calculus 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 106 Calculus I 5 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">STAT 218 Introduction to Statistics (ACE 3) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Communications 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Written Communication(ACE 1) 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Select two from:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENGL 150 Writing: Rhetoric as Inquiry 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENGL 151 Writing: Rhetoric as Argument 3 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENGL 254 Writing and Communities 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JGEN 120 Basic Business Communication 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JGEN 300 Technical Communication II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Oral Communication (ACE 2) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Select one from:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">COMM 109 Fundamentals of Human Communication 3 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">COMM 209 Public Speaking 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">COMM 283 Interpersonal Communication 3 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Economics (ACE 6) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Select one from:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AECN 141 Introduction to the Economics of Agriculture 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ECON 200 Economic Essentials and Issues 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ECON 211/ECON 211H Principles of Macroeconomics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ECON 212/ECON 212H Principles of Microeconomics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">ACE Courses 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Select one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, and 9.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">All courses should be taken for a letter grade, unless the course is only offered Pass/No Pass (P/N). A course taken P/N may either be not accepted or accepted as if the student earned a C for that course.</p>
<p class="title-2">Minimal grade requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">A grade of at least a C must be earned in each course.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>