<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Psychology 16-17.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="psychology-16-17">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Psychology</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Psychology</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Joanna Seley and Marybeth Helmink</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Rick Bevins</span>, 238 Burnett Hall</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Chairs:</span> David DiLillo and Eve Brank, 238 Burnett Hall</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Belli, Bevins, Bornstein, Crockett, DiLillo, Garbin, Hansen, Hope, Leger, Molfese, Scalora, Spaulding, Tomkins, Wiener</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Brank, Dodd, Gervais, Li, McChargue, Nelson, Schutte, Stoltenberg, Willis-Esqueda</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Brock, Johnson, Neta, Stevens</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> Williamson</p>
<p class="basic-text">The undergraduate degree program in psychology is designed to provide you with educational and research experiences that can prepare you for graduate or professional school in academic psychology, medicine, dentistry, nursing, public health, and law—to name a few. The bachelors degree program in psychology can also prepare you for diverse careers in applied fields such as counseling, business, and health and human services. If you plan to major in psychology, we recommend that you meet with our advisors as early as possible to plan a program of study consistent with your interests and goals.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> Graduate programs leading to the doctor of philosophy degree in psychology are offered. A detailed description of these courses appears in the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Core Requirements 21</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PSYC 100 Career Planning for Psychology Majors 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PSYC 181 Introduction to Psychology 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PSYC 263 Introduction to Cognitive Processes 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PSYC 273 Brain &amp; Behavior 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PSYC 288 The Psychology of Social Behavior 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PSYC 289 Developmental Psychology 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PSYC 350 Research Methods &amp; Data Analysis 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Advanced Psychology Courses 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">15 additional credit hours in PSYC courses at the 300 level or above, including at least 9 credit hours at the 400 level or above <em>(excluding PSYC 350, PSYC 396, PSYC 399H, PSYC 496, PSYC 497, PSYC 499).</em></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total credit hours: 36</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> Students are strongly advised to complete Core Requirements before the Advanced Psychology Courses.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> To assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, the following learning outcomes will be regularly assessed:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">1. Demonstrate knowledge of the main content areas of psychology, including cognitive, developmental, neuroscience and social.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">2. Understand the most common research designs and demonstrate ability to locate, understand, and evaluate a published research report.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">3. Generate a research report including the methodology and data analysis used to test an empirical hypothesis.</p>

<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">Excluding PSYC 100, up to 3 hours of Pass/No Pass credit may be taken in major requirements.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="title-2">Plan A (1 minor):</p>
<ul>
<li>PSYC 181</li>
<li>14 credit hours at the 200 level or above, including at least 9 credit hours at the 300 level or above.</li>
</ul>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Minimum: 18 credit hours</p>
<p class="title-2">Plan B (2 minors):</p>
<ul>
<li>PSYC 181</li>
<li>Plus three other courses at the 200 level or above.</li>
</ul>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Minimum: 12 credit hours.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">No more than 3 hours from the following courses can count toward the minor: PSYC 296, PSYC 297, PSYC 299, PSYC 396, PSYC 496, PSYC 497, PSYC 499. Students minoring in this department may take up to 3 hours Pass/No Pass.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>