<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Russian (ASC) 16-17.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="russian-asc-16-17">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Russian (ASC)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Russian (ASC)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Radha Balasubramanian</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair:</span> TBD, 1111 Oldfather Hall</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Vice Chair:</span> TBD</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Balasubramanian, Hayden-Roy, Pereira, Stump</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Amano, Brantner, González, González-Allende, Guevara, Lorenzo, Mejias-Bikandi, Shirer, Velázquez</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Enkin, Hasan, Kingsbury Brunetto, Peterson</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Emeriti Professors:</span> Carr, Fouletier-Smith, E. Jacobson, M. Jacobson, Martinez, Nickel, Saskova-Pierce, Turner, Wilhelmsen</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Department of Modern Languages and Literatures offers courses in Arabic, German, Japanese, the Romance Language group (French, Spanish), and the Slavic group (Czech, Russian). Whenever possible, the courses are conducted in the language that is studied. The aim of instruction is reading, writing, aural and oral proficiency, and an understanding of the life, literature, and culture of the country. Lectures and films in the language studied are offered during the school year for the benefit of the students in the department. Language laboratories supplement class work.</p>
<p class="title-2">Placement</p>
<p class="basic-text">Incoming students who wish to enter the University’s language program in French, Spanish, and German are required to take the Computer Assisted Placement Examination (CAPE). The results of the placement exam, together with training in a secondary school university, or other prior second language environments, will assist students in finding the level at which they will have the greatest opportunity for success. The examination results will be used in combination with advising to determine appropriate placement in the sequence of courses offered within the department’s curriculum. CAPE is administered in the language laboratory (302 Burnett Hall). Those students exempted from this requirement are expected to enroll in a first semester elementary course (101). Students qualifying for this exemption are defined as follows:</p>
<p class="list-indent">1. Students with no previous second language exposure whatsoever.</p>
<p class="list-indent">2. Students whose second language exposure amounts to one year or less at the U.S. high school level.</p>
<p class="list-indent">3. Students who wish to begin study of a new language other than those previously studied.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Foreign language placement guidelines are generally determined by the following criteria for students who come to the University with:</p>
<p class="list-indent">1. One semester of a language in high school should take 101 (same language or a new one);</p>
<p class="list-indent">2. Two or three semesters in high school should take 102 (same language);</p>
<p class="list-indent">3. Four or five semesters in high school should take 201;</p>
<p class="list-indent">4. Six semesters in high school should take 202;</p>
<p class="list-indent">5. Eight semesters or more in high school should take 203.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">The department participates in the following interdisciplinary study programs: Institute for Ethnic Studies, Global Studies, Jewish Studies, Latin American Studies, Medieval and Renaissance Studies, and Women’s and Gender Studies.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may receive full credit at the University of Nebraska for education abroad programs in many countries, among these are Costa Rica, France, Germany, Spain, Russia, Japan, and the Czech Republic. See http://educationabroad.unl.edu for a guide to these programs.</p>
<p><span class="header-paragraph-title">Auditing.</span> <span class="header-paragraph">Audits are allowed in 101 in French, German and Spanish only upon recommendation of the Modern Language Placement Advisors. Otherwise no audits are allowed in 100- and 200-level classes.</span></p>
<p class="title-2">Literature in Translation</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Department offers the following literature in translation courses for which no knowledge of a foreign language is necessary. Check the Office of the University Registrar's website at registrar.unl.edu to determine which are being taught in any given semester:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MODL 101 Windows to the World (GLST 101)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MODL 234D Major Themes in World Literature (ENGL 234D)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MODL 298, MODL 398 Special Topics</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">FREN 282 and GERM 282 French/German Literature in Translation</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">SPAN 264 &amp; SPAN 265 Spanish-American Literature in Translation I &amp; II</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">JAPN 331 Introduction to Japanese Film</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">JAPN 483 Modern Japanese Literature &amp; Culture in Translation</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">RUSS 482 &amp; RUSS 483 Russian Literature in Translation I &amp; II</p>
<p><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> <span class="header-paragraph">The advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy are offered in French, German, and Spanish. For details, see the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</span></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Courses numbered 300 or above with at least 6 hours at the 400 level 27</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">RUSS 301, RUSS 302, RUSS 303, RUSS 304,  RUSS 408 (3 hrs ea) 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Additional hours of RUSS courses above 300 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Russian Area Studies 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from the following list or as approved by the major advisor</span>:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">HIST 330</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">HIST 338</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">HIST 362</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">HIST 462</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment. </span>In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required to assemble a portfolio. A faculty advisor will inform students of the required contents of the portfolio, deadlines and procedures. During their last semester, Russian majors will be required to provide oral and written materials for their portfolios.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Results of participation in this assessment activity will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</p>
<p class="title-1">Minor Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">A minor is required and may be taken in any area.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">No courses in the department may be taken by students majoring or minoring in modern languages for Pass/No Pass credit.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<ul>
<li>12 hours in one language at the 300 level or 400 level, including at least 6 hours from 301, 302, 303, 304, and 3 hours at the 400 level.</li>
</ul>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Pass/No Pass.</span> No courses in the department may be taken by students majoring or minoring in modern languages for Pass/No Pass credit.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>