<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Software Engineering 16-17.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="software-engineering-16-17">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Software Engineering</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Software Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 124</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.4 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Charles Riedesel</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Matthew Dwyer, </span> 256 Avery Hall</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Deogun, Dwyer, Elbaum, Goddard, Jiang, Ramamurthy, Reichenbach, Revesz, Rothermel, Samal, Seth (emeritus), Sincovec (emeritus), Surkan (emeritus), Variyam</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Choueiry, Cohen, Cooper, Costello (emeritus), Lu, Scott, Soh, Srisa-an, Vuran, Xu</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Bradley, Cui, Detweiler, Duncan, Pierobon, Wei, Yan, Yu</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Research Associate Professor:</span> Swanson</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Research Assistant Professors:</span> Bockelman, Tian</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor of Practice:</span> Person</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors of Practice:</span> Bourke, Hasan, Riedesel</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Adjunct Associate Professor:</span> Sarma</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturers:</span> Patrick, Suing</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Undergraduate Advisor:</span> Charles Riedesel, 402-472-3486, chuckr@unl.edu</p>
<p class="basic-text">The UNL Department of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) offers Nebraska's only comprehensive program of higher education, research, and service outreach in computer science, computer engineering, and software engineering.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The CSE department offers a unique and challenging baccalaureate degree program in software engineering, incorporating hands-on learning and an integrated computer science and software engineering core curriculum to prepare graduates for professional practice in a wide range of industries and for post-graduate education.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Software engineers work on multidisciplinary teams to identify and formulate software solutions and maintain software intensive systems of all sizes. The focus of this program is on the rigorous engineering practices necessary to build, maintain and protect modern software intensive systems. Consistent with this focus, the software engineering baccalaureate program consists of a rigorous curriculum of science, math, computer science, and software engineering courses. Students completing the major will have the ability to:</p>
<ul>
<li>Apply disciplined software engineering practices and principles to the design, architecture, development, analysis, testing and maintenance of complex software systems to meet the desired needs of the stakeholders and within realistic constraints.</li>
<li>Identify, formulate and solve engineering problems using computational resources.</li>
<li>Contribute their expertise to the solution of problems by effectively collaborating and communicating with other stakeholders in multidisciplinary teams.</li>
<li>Adapt to rapid advances in computing and software engineering tools, technologies, principles and practices.</li>
</ul>
<p class="header-paragraph">Students will also have:</p>
<ul>
<li>The background and perspective for post-graduate education. Studies develop skills in the application of theory, experimentation, and life-long learning/professional development.</li>
<li>Insight into the world of practicing professionals for collaborations, mutual support, and representing the profession to government and society. Studies include teamwork, communication, and hands-on experience, plus students are provided with multiple opportunities for involvement in organizations such as ACM, UPE, and IEEE.</li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">The CSE department also offers a degree of bachelor of science in computer engineering through the College of Engineering, and a bachelor of science in computer science through the College of Arts and Sciences. All students majoring in the CSE department should see their advisors during the first semester to ensure they understand the differences in the requirements between the three majors. Majors should consult with their advisors each semester for registration advising.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Introductory Courses.</span> Entering students take SOFT 160 Software Engineering I, the first course in the software engineering core series (SOFT 160, SOFT 161, SOFT 260, SOFT 261). This course provides an introduction to fundamental software engineering concepts and foundational computer science topics to prepare students for more advanced software engineering and computer science courses.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Programs.</span> The CSE Department offers several graduate degree programs: master of science in computer science, master of science in computer science with a computer engineering specialization, master of science in computer science with a bioinformatics specialization, doctor of philosophy in computer science, doctor of philosophy in engineering with computer engineering specialization, doctor of philosophy in computer science with bioinformatics specialization, and joint doctor of philosophy in computer science and mathematics. See the <em>Graduate Studies Bulletin</em> for details.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR DEPARTMENT ADMISSION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are expected to meet minimum college entrance requirements. After being admitted to the college, students desiring to pursue a degree in software engineering must go through the Professional Admission process, which is automatically performed for qualifying students at the end of the sophomore year. In order to be considered for Professional Admission to the software engineering program, students must receive at least a C+ in SOFT 160, SOFT 161, SOFT 260, SOFT 261, CSCE 235, MATH 106, and MATH 107 and a GPA of at least 2.5 (semester and cumulative). If a student's cumulative GPA drops below 2.4, the student may be placed on restricted status, may be removed from the College, and may not be able to graduate.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="basic-text">The software engineering degree requires 124 hours of course work. There is a set of required core courses and technical elective courses in computer science and software engineering (79 credit hours), mathematics (18 credit hours), science (12 credit hours), and other supporting courses (15 credit hours) as described below.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Computer Science and Software Engineering 79 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Computer Science Core 23 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CSCE 10, CSCE 230, CSCE 235, CSCE 322, CSCE 378, CSCE 411, CSCE 423, CSCE 451,  CSCE 491</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Software Engineering Core 29 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">SOFT 160, SOFT 161, SOFT 260, SOFT 261, SOFT 360, SOFT 461, SOFT 466, SOFT 467,  SOFT 468</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Technical Electives 15 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">Students must take at least 15 credit hours of SOFT or CSCE technical electives. At least 9 hours must be taken at the 400 level <span class="requirement-bold">except</span> SOFT and CSCE courses required by the software engineering major and except courses that have been designated as courses that will not count toward a major or minor in computer science or software engineering by the Department of Computer Science and Engineering.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4"><span class="requirement-bold">Included</span> courses at the 200-level are: CSCE 236.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4"><span class="requirement-bold">Included</span> courses at the 300-level are: CSCE 335, CSCE 351, CSCE 396,  CSCE 399H.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">In addition to the courses mention above, <span class="requirement-bold">excluded</span> CSCE designated courses are: CSCE 401H, CSCE 402H, CSCE 488, CSCE 489, CSCE 490,  CSCE 493. Honors versions of these courses are also not allowed to count towards technical elective credits.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Capstone Experience 12 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CSCE 493 (2 semesters, 3 hours each) and CSCE 486 and CSCE 487 in strict sequence.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Mathematics 18 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 314,  STAT 380 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital"> Select one of the following</span>: 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 208, MATH 208H, MATH 238, MATH 428, MATH 439, MATH 465 or an approved statistics course <span class="requirement-ital">(choose from STAT 412, STAT 414, STAT 442,  STAT 450)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Science 12 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Must take at least 12 credit hours of science courses intended for science/engineering majors and must include at least one laboratory. The CSE department has identified the following five disciplines with their acceptable courses:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-bold">Chemistry:</span> <strong>CHEM 109</strong> &amp; <strong>CHEM 110 </strong>or <strong>CHEM</strong> <strong>113</strong> &amp; CHEM 114 and <strong>CHEM 221</strong>, CHEM 261, <strong>CHEM 262</strong>, CHEM 263, <strong>CHEM 264</strong></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-bold">Physics and Astronomy:</span> PHYS 141, <strong>PHYS 142</strong>, PHYS 211, <strong>PHYS 221</strong>, PHYS 212, <strong>PHYS 222</strong>, PHYS 213, <strong>PHYS 223</strong>, ASTR 204, <strong>ASTR 224</strong></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-bold">Biological Sciences:</span> <strong>BIOS 205</strong>, BIOS 206, <strong>BIOS 207</strong>, LIFE 120 &amp; <strong>LIFE 120L</strong>, LIFE 121 &amp; <strong>LIFE 121L</strong></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-bold">Earth and Atmospheric Sciences:</span> <strong>GEOG 155</strong>, GEOG 181, <strong>GEOL 101</strong>, <strong>GEOL 103</strong>, <strong>GEOL 210</strong>, <strong>GEOL 211</strong>, <strong>GEOL 310</strong>, <strong>GEOL 340</strong>, <strong>METR 100</strong>, METR 205, <strong>METR 223</strong>, METR 311, METR 312, METR 323, <strong>METR 341</strong></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-bold">Anthropology:</span> ANTH 242, <strong>ANTH 242L</strong></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> Bold face type indicates a lab course or that a lab is included with the course.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Other Supporting Courses 15 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 20, JGEN 200, and ACE 5, 6, 7, and 9.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required in their senior year to complete a written exit survey. Results of participation in these assessment activities will in no way affect a student's GPA or graduation.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Applicants for Professional Admission to software engineering must meet the usual college requirements plus a minimum grade rule on the following core courses (or their equivalents):</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Grades of C+ or higher in CSCE 235, MATH 106, MATH 107, SOFT 160, SOFT 161, SOFT 260, and SOFT 261.</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students majoring in software engineering may not take any course from the list of core computer science courses, core software engineering courses, capstone courses, or from the list of technical electives for Pass/No Pass credit.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>