<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>The Libraries 17-18.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="the-libraries-17-18">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">The Libraries</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Nancy Busch, Ph.D., Dean of Libraries and Professor</span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: medium;"> </span></p>
<p style="margin: 0in 0in 0pt; mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Verdana',sans-serif; font-size: 7.5pt;">The University Libraries, comprised of Love Library and six branch libraries, including C.Y. Thompson Library on east campus, is the only comprehensive research library in Nebraska. In the six branches, students will find specialized collections on subjects such as architecture, engineering, geology, mathematics, agriculture, and music. The Schmid Law Library on east campus also serves students. The Adele Coryell Hall Learning Commons in Love Library North has extended hours, individual and group study spaces, computers, coffee and snacks, and expert research and technology help. The Libraries website is a 24/7 gateway for both in-house and remote access to a robust set of resources, including electronic books, journal articles, online archival material, and print materials. Collections are supplemented by interlibrary loan and document delivery. Membership in the Big Ten Academic Alliance allows for quick access to Big Ten library collections. Library ASKus services include in-person, telephone, text, chat, and email assistance. All branches have strong wireless and networked printing. Laptop computers are available for check out at Love Library and C.Y. Thompson Library. For further information, please consult:</span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: medium;"> </span></p>
<ul style="list-style-type: disc; direction: ltr;">
<li style="font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">
<p style="font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; margin-top: 0in; margin-bottom: 0pt; mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-list: l0 level1 lfo1; tab-stops: list 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Verdana',sans-serif; font-size: 7.5pt;">Main Libraries page: <span style="color: #0563c1;">http://libraries.unl.edu</span></span></p>
</li>
<li style="font-family: 'Verdana',sans-serif; font-size: 7.5pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal;">
<p style="font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif; font-size: 11pt; font-style: normal; font-weight: normal; margin-top: 0in; margin-bottom: 0pt; mso-margin-top-alt: auto; mso-margin-bottom-alt: auto; mso-list: l0 level1 lfo1; tab-stops: list 0in;"><span style="color: black; font-family: 'Verdana',sans-serif; font-size: 7.5pt;">ASKus: <span style="color: #0563c1;">http://libraries.unl.edu/askus-1</span></span></p>
</li>
</ul>
<p class="faculty-list"><span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: medium;"> </span></p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>