<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>ARCH_College</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="arch-college">			<div class="story">				<p class="college-name">College of Architecture</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points">COLLEGE: College of Architecture</p>				<p class="quick-points">MAJORS: Architecture, Landscape Architecture, Interior Design</p>				<p class="content-box-m-p">ADMISSION</p>				<p class="title-1">Admission to the College of Architecture</p>				<p class="basic-text">Admission to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln does not constitute admission to the College of Architecture. Students seeking enrollment in the College of Architecture should indicate their desire by marking the proper major code on the University application form.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Freshmen students applying for admission to the Pre-Architecture and Pre-Landscape Architecture Program must submit complete admission application materials by March 15. Please note this is different from the standard university procedures. Freshmen students applying for admission to the Pre-Interior Design Program must submit complete admission application materials by May 1 for fall admission and December 1 for spring admission. Transfer students must present materials by February 15. These admission procedures apply to high school students seeking admission, as well as transfer students, international students, and also those transferring from UNO and UNK to UNL.</p>				<p class="title-2">High School Standards Pre-Architecture Program</p>				<p class="basic-text">Prospective students interested in the Professional Program in Architecture are eligible to apply for admission into the pre-architecture major if their high school records meet the following standards:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Mathematics–4 units of Algebra I, II, geometry, and one-half unit of trigonometry, and one-half unit that builds on a knowledge of algebra or pre-calculus.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. English–4 units of intensive reading and writing.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Social Studies–3 units. At least one unit of American and/or world history and one additional unit of history, American government, and/or geography.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Natural Science–3 units. At least two of the three units selected from biology, chemistry, physics, and earth sciences. One of the units must include a laboratory.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">5. Foreign Language–2 units.</p>				<p class="title-3">Deficiencies</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL.</p>				<p class="title-2">High School Standards Pre-Interior Design Program</p>				<p class="basic-text">Prospective students interested in the Interior Design Program are eligible for admission to the pre-interior design major if their high school records meet the following standards:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Mathematics-4 units of Algebra I, II, geometry, and one additional unit that builds on a knowledge of algebra.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. English-4 units of intensive reading and writing.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Social Studies-3 units. At least one unit of American and/or world history and one additional unit of history, American government, and/or geography.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Natural Science-3 units. At least two of the three units selected from biology, chemistry, physics, and earth sciences. One of the units must include a laboratory.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">5. Foreign Language-2 units.</p>				<p class="title-3">Deficiencies</p>				<p class="basic-text">Each application that does not meet the requirements for Assured Admission will automatically receive individual review. The applicant’s total academic record and performance will be taken into consideration. If admitted, all deficiencies will have to be made up within the first academic year and are governed by University policies for removal of deficiencies.</p>				<p class="title-2">High School Standards Pre-Landscape Architecture Program</p>				<p class="basic-text">Prospective students interested in the Professional Program in Landscape Architecture are eligible to apply for admission into the pre-architecture major if their high school records meet the following standards:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Mathematics–4 units of Algebra I, II, geometry, and one-half unit of trigonometry, and one-half unit that builds on a knowledge of algebra or pre-calculus.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. English–4 units of intensive reading and writing.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Social Studies–3 units. At least one unit of American and/or world history and one additional unit of history, American government, and/or geography.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Natural Science–3 units. At least one of these units must include chemistry with a lab. Two other units can be from biology, physics, and/or earth sciences.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">5. Foreign Language–2 units.</p>				<p class="title-2">Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies </p>				<p class="basic-text">Each application that does not meet the requirements for Assured Admission will automatically receive individual review. The applicant’s total academic record and performance will be taken into consideration. If admitted, all deficiencies will have to be made up within the first academic year and are governed by University policies for removal of deficiencies.</p>				<p class="title-2">General Admission Requirements for the College of Architecture</p>				<p class="basic-text">In addition to the high school admission requirements, the College of Architecture has established the following general admission requirements for all undergraduate students.</p>				<p class="title-3">New freshman students must: </p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Graduate in the upper quartile of their high school class, or</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Have an enhanced ACT composite score of 22, or</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Have a combined SAT verbal and math total of at least 1030 enhanced, or</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Receive permission from the chair of the department with a waiver from the above requirements.</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-3">New international freshman students must:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Meet UNL entrance requirements for new international freshman students, and</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Have a MELAB score of at least 80 or a minimum TOEFL score of 550, or computer-based score of 213 or 79-80 Internet-based.</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-3">New transfer students must:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Have a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA for architecture and landscape architecture or 3.0 for interior design and be in good scholastic standing.</li>				</ul>				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span> New transfer students must comply with new freshman student entrance requirements if they have completed less than 12 credit hours of college study.</p>				<p class="title-3">New international transfer students must:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Meet UNL entrance requirements for international transfer students</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Have a MELAB score of at least 80 or a minimum TOEFL score of 550, or computer-based score of 213, or Internet-based score of 79-80</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Have a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA and be in good scholastic standing</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-3">Students who transfer into the College of Architecture from other colleges at UNL must:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Have a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA for architecture and landscape architecture or 3.0 for interior design and be in good scholastic standing. Students transferring from UNO and UNK are included in the new transfer student category.</li>				</ul>				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span> New transfer students must comply with new freshman student entrance requirements if they have completed less than 12 credit hours of college study.</p>				<p class="title-2">Readmission</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who apply for readmission to the College of Architecture must have a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA for architecture and landscape architecture or 3.0 for interior design, be in good scholastic standing and receive permission from the Dean of the College. Students may apply for admittance into the Pre-Architecture, Pre-Landscape Architecture, and Pre-Interior Design Program a maximum of three times.</p>				<p class="basic-text"> Former students who withdraw after being admitted to the College, or who have been academically suspended and wish to be readmitted must: a) be readmitted to the College in good scholastic standing, and b) be in good scholastic standing in accordance with the departmental standards and receive permission from the chair of the department. Applicants for readmission will compete for spaces available with all other admission applicants.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADVISING</p>				<p class="title-1">Academic Advising</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College of Architecture is committed to providing effective advising services to students as an essential component of their educational experience.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the Architecture, Interior Design, and Landscape Architecture Programs are assigned to a staff adviser. These advisers are located in the Programs Office to afford students easy access to information and to the program directors should this be necessary or desirable. Students are also given access to an advisers Web site developed specifically for the College.</p>				<p class="basic-text">After admission into their respective professional program, students are assigned a faculty adviser. This person serves as an important resource for questions about the professions, their future careers, and their academic plans and progress. Students are encouraged to regularly consult with their adviser and are responsible for initiating advising contacts and preparing for advising sessions. Students must consult with their adviser prior to registering for classes. Failure to do so may result in removal from classes. Ultimately, students are themselves responsible for fulfilling all the requirements of the curriculum in which they are enrolled. The intellectual mentoring relationship between academic adviser and student is protected by confidentiality and strengthened by listening with understanding to student concerns.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The program office houses student records and the staff is helpful in checking on degree requirements and University procedures and policies.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The program office provides information for prospective and entering students who are seeking admission to the College of Architecture.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</p>				<p class="title-1">Academic Load</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the bachelor of science in design (BSD) degree program must be enrolled in 12 credit hours of course work to be classified as a full time student. Students in the master of architecture degree program must be enrolled in 9 credit hours of course work to be classified as a full time student. Students participating in one of the department’s study abroad programs enrolled in less than the credit hours specified above may also be classified as full time students with permission of the chair.</p>				<p class="basic-text">BSD students must obtain permission from the chair of the department to enroll in more than 17 credit hours prior to the start of the semester. Students in the MArch program must obtain similar permission to exceed 15 credit hours.</p>				<p class="title-2">Employment and Course Load Guidelines</p>				<p class="basic-text">The study of architecture is a demanding discipline requiring a significant commitment to succeed. For this reason, the department has adopted a policy recommending students who are employed to not exceed the following registration guidelines:</p>				<table>					<thead>						<tr>							<td>								<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Work load per week</span></p>							</td>							<td>								<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Course load per semester</span></p>							</td>						</tr>					</thead>					<tbody>						<tr>							<td>								<p class="basic-text">0 hours</p>							</td>							<td>								<p class="basic-text">up to 18 credit hours</p>							</td>						</tr>						<tr>							<td>								<p class="basic-text">8-16 hours</p>							</td>							<td>								<p class="basic-text">13-16 credit hours</p>							</td>						</tr>						<tr>							<td>								<p class="basic-text">17-20 hours</p>							</td>							<td>								<p class="basic-text">10-12 credit hours</p>							</td>						</tr>						<tr>							<td>								<p class="basic-text">Full time</p>							</td>							<td>								<p class="basic-text">up to 6 cr hours</p>							</td>						</tr>					</tbody>				</table>				<p class="basic-text">Professional students holding teaching or research assistantships are required to be enrolled as a student in the professional program and their course load cannot exceed 12 credit hours per semester. Students holding these positions are prohibited from engaging in any other form of remunerative employment without the permission of the program director.</p>				<p class="title-1">Course Exclusions &amp; Restrictions</p>				<p class="title-3">Military Science, Naval Science, Aerospace Studies and/or Physical Education</p>				<p class="basic-text">A maximum combination of courses in these areas totaling 6 credit hours can be applied toward the bachelor of science in design degree as elective credit.</p>				<p class="title-1">Drop/Add </p>				<p class="basic-text">The university’s drop/add policy is outlined in the Schedule of Classes each semester. The professional program subscribes to the same rules and limitations indicated in this publication. In general, classes can only be added during the first week of the semester. You may drop a class from your schedule anytime during the first eleven weeks of the semester. After the eleventh week, withdrawal from the class is possible only for extraordinary circumstances and will be granted only by petition. Grounds for extraordinary withdrawal include: military service, medical illness, death in immediate family, personal trauma, or complete absence from all courses without officially withdrawing.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The specific deadline for dropping a class is listed in the Schedule of Classes. Students can access eNroll or use the NRoll telephone registration system (402-472-7272) to drop or add classes. Please be warned, failure to attend classes does not constitute proper notification of dropping a class. If you are unable to attend classes, you need to see or telephone your instructor as soon as possible. Failure to do so may jeopardize your chances for dropping the class. If you wish to drop all your courses, you need to use the Withdrawal from the University form. See the section below for a description of this process.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Drop/Add form is available in the Program Office.</p>				<p class="title-1">Dual Degrees</p>				<p class="title-2">Joint Degree Programs</p>				<p class="title-3">Civil Engineering</p>				<p class="basic-text">The departments of civil engineering and architecture offer a joint degree program of study. This program allows the student to obtain the masters degree in architecture and the bachelors degree in civil engineering after seven years of study. A suggested sequence of courses can be obtained from your adviser or the program office. Special advising for this program is provided by Professor Kuska.</p>				<p class="title-3">Business</p>				<p class="basic-text">Architecture majors accepted to the 5th and 6th years may choose to pursue a three-year course of study that leads to joint degrees of master of architecture and master of business administration. Participation in this joint degree program requires admission into both the MArch and MBA programs. Students should consult with their adviser to develop an appropriate plan.</p>				<p class="title-3">Community and Regional Planning</p>				<p class="basic-text">Architecture majors accepted to the 5th and 6th years may choose to pursue a course of study that leads to joint degrees of master of architecture and master of community and regional planning. A suggested sequence of courses can be obtained from your adviser, the Architecture Program Office, or the Community and Regional Planning Program Office.</p>				<p class="title-3">Construction Management</p>				<p class="basic-text">Architecture majors accepted to the 5th and 6th years may pursue a course of study that leads to joint degrees of master of architecture and master of engineering in construction management. This requires acceptance by the Construction Management Program. The required course sequence can be obtained from your adviser.</p>				<p class="title-1">Enrollment Policy</p>				<p class="title-2">College of Architecture Enrollment Policy</p>				<p class="basic-text">Enrollment in the pre-architecture, pre-interior design, and pre-landscape architecture majors shall be limited by available teaching resources and space capacities,<span class="basic-text-bold"> therefore an enrollment limit is established for each of these programs.</span></p>				<p class="basic-text">Admission to the Pre-Architecture, Pre-Interior Design, and Pre-Landscape Architecture Programs occurs year-round; however, access to studio courses is not guaranteed for those students admitted beyond the February 15th deadline for transfer students or March 15th deadline for freshmen.</p>				<p class="title-2">Probation, Appeals and Dismissal</p>				<p class="basic-text">BSD students who are placed on probation will not be allowed to take any new architecture or interior design courses without the permission of the program director. Students will be allowed to retake architecture and interior design courses while on probation. Students may not take the same course more than three times.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the BSD degree program placed on academic probation by the College for two consecutive semesters will be transferred out of the College of Architecture into General Studies and must reapply for admission to the College and the Architecture, Landscape Architecture, or Interior Design Programs. Students must have a cumulative GPA of 3.0 to be readmitted from General Studies into architecture and 2.8 into interior design.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the MArch program placed on probation will be allowed to continue with their classes for one semester. If their next semester grade point average is below a 3.0 they are dismissed from the degree program. Students desiring to be readmitted will have to apply for admission to the professional program.</p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Students who register for new architecture or interior design courses while on probation will be administratively dropped from those courses unless they have received the permission of the program chair.</span></p>				<p class="title-2">Registration Limits</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students are not allowed to register for 300-800 level architecture or interior design courses unless they have been admitted into their respective professional programs. Some specific courses allow registration of non-majors with permission of the faculty member teaching the course but this permission process is not available to majors.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The programs have adopted limits on the number of credit hours a student can register for without the permission of the Chair. Students in good academic standing are allowed to register for a maximum of 17 credit hours. Students wishing to exceed this number must secure permission from the Chair prior to registering for the courses. Under no circumstances can a student register for more than 19 hours in a semester.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who are on academic probation are restricted to a maximum number of 12 credit hours. Under no circumstances will they be allowed to exceed this number while on probation. For more specific limitations for students on academic probation see the text on Academic Standing earlier in this section.</p>				<p class="title-1">Student Recognition</p>				<p class="title-2">Dean’s List</p>				<p class="basic-text">Each semester, select undergraduate students enrolled in the College of Architecture are recognized for their scholastic accomplishments by being named to the Dean’s List. Criteria for this honor are:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Students must earn a semester (not cumulative) GPA that ranks them in the upper ten percent of the College’s enrollment.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Students must earn a minimum of 12 graded credit hours during that semester. (Pass/No Pass credit cannot be applied toward the 12 required credit hours.)</p>				<p class="title-2">Graduation With Distinction and With High Distinction</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students with outstanding scholastic records may earn the special honor of graduation With Distinction or With High Distinction. One student each graduation may be chosen to graduate With Highest Distinction. Requirements for these honors are listed below.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduation With Distinction</span> shall be awarded to students earning at least 60 credit hours in residence at UNL who are in the 90th percentile of those graduating in the prior twelve month period or who have a minimum 3.6 cumulative GPA.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduation With High Distinction</span> shall be awarded to students in the top half of those who meet the qualifications for graduation with distinction and have a minimum 3.8 cumulative GPA.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduation With Highest Distinction</span> may be awarded by selection of the faculty to a student who meets the qualifications for graduation with high distinction and has also demonstrated outstanding professional excellence through creative work.</p>				<p class="title-1">International Studies Programs</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">China.</span> The College of Architecture has a formal agreement for an exchange of faculty and students with the Northwest Institute of Architectural Engineering at Xian, People’s Republic of China. This exchange program was initiated in 1989.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Dublin, Ireland.</span> During the fall semester, qualified students in the Department of Architecture can elect to study in Dublin, Ireland. Under an agreement with the Dublin Institute of Technology, students have an opportunity to complete one semester of their requirements toward a degree at UNL.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Hannover, Germany.</span> During the spring semester, qualified students in the fourth or fifth year of the BSD program can elect to study in Hannover, Germany. Under an agreement with Hannover University, students have an opportunity to complete one semester of their requirements toward a degree at UNL.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Clermont-Ferrand, France.</span> During the spring semester, qualified students in the fourth or fifth year of the BSD program can elect to study in Clermont-Ferrand, France. Under an agreement with the university, students have an opportunity to complete one semester of their requirements toward a degree at UNL.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">London, England.</span> During each spring semester, qualified students may elect one semester of resident studies in London, England. The program offers students enrolled in the architecture (5th or 6th years), interior design (4th year), or landscape architecture (4th year) programs the opportunity to study urban and architectural design in a cross-cultural and comparative manner. Under the direction of a faculty member in either the architecture, interior design, or landscape architecture programs, the program is annually accommodated by a wealth of historic and modern case materials with cooperative assistance from educators and practicing professionals in the London area. Stephan Rienke (AIA, RIBA) serves as adjunct professor to the College and provides invaluable professional and cultural assistance to visiting UNL faculty and students.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Tianjin, China.</span> During each fall semester, qualified students may elect a semester of resident studies in Tianjin, China. The program offers students enrolled in the architecture (5th or 6th year) or landscape architecture (5th year) the opportunity to study design in an urban environment with cross-cultural influences. Under the direction of a faculty member of either architecture or landscape architecture, the program offers students a rich experience. Working with the urban design and planning office of KX International Design and Planning.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Monteverde, Costa Rica.</span> During the summer 3-week pre-session, the Community and Regional Planning Department offers a 3-credit advanced field studies course in Costa Rica, covering basic field techniques in environmental, social and economic aspects of sustainable community planning in developing regions and sensitive environments.</p>				<p class="title-1">Senior Check/Degree Audit</p>				<p class="title-2">Senior and Professional Check and Application for Degree</p>				<p class="basic-text">During the last semester of the third year of study, senior checks are to be initiated by the student and reviewed by the student’s adviser. The senior check forms are maintained by the adviser and filed in the students’ advising folders.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students must complete senior checks with their advisers and, after the adviser signs off on it, submit them to the Program Office for final processing and approval during early registration for their last semester in the BSD program.</p>				<p class="basic-text">A similar procedure applies to students in the MArch and BLA programs. The professional check will be initiated in the student’s first year in the program. The final check, with their adviser and submittal to the Program Office for processing and approval, should occur during the early registration period for the last semester in the MArch program.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in both the BSD and MArch degree programs must also file a graduation notice with the Credentials Office early in the semester in which they intend to graduate. Failure to meet the published deadline will delay graduation one full term.</p>				<p class="title-1">Substitutions and Waivers</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students wishing to propose a course substitution in their curriculum of study must petition the Professional Program Committee by completing a substitution form. The substitution form should be filled out in consultation with your academic adviser. All proposals must include a detailed explanation for the substitution. The student’s adviser must review and sign the completed form before it can be submitted to the Professional Program Committee. It is very important that these procedures be followed for an expeditious response to the proposal. Substitutions must be approved before enrolling in a substitute course.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students are advised the Professional Program Committee meets once a month, and will not consider any substitution proposals without a completed form and explanation signed by their adviser. The process to obtain a course substitution is lengthy and can not be accomplished at the “eleventh hour” to compensate for poor academic planning.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Copies of the substitution form are available in the Program Office.</p>				<p class="title-1">Internships</p>				<p class="title-2">Architecture Internship</p>				<p class="basic-text">An internship program is available to students who have completed the BSD or its equivalent before or during the 5th and 6th year of the Professional Program in Architecture. Academic credits will be given (up to 6 hours) for this internship experience. Students will be required to apply for acceptance into the program and will be monitored by the program’s internship coordinator.</p>				<p class="title-2">Interior Design Internship</p>				<p class="basic-text">All students enrolled in the Interior Design Program need to complete an approved internship as part of their professional requirements. Students are not eligible for an internship until they are enrolled in, or have completed, IDES 351 Interior Design Studio 2.</p>				<p class="title-2">Landscape Architecture Internship</p>				<p class="basic-text">All students enrolled in the Landscape Architecture Program need to complete an internship as a part of their professional requirements. Academic credit will be given (up to 6 hours) for this internship experience. The internship program is available to students who have completed the BSD program.</p>				<p class="title-2">Planning Internship</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Community and Regional Planning Program recommends that students without previous work experience in planning complete a field internship as part of the MCRP program. The internship involves a training period of actual service in a public or private organization.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The field experience component of the MCRP program provides an excellent means for students to augment and expand their planning skills, to more closely examine their career aspirations, and to evaluate their academic progress. Internships provide students with unique learning experiences that are impossible to replicate in the classroom. Many internships provide financial assistance for students while they are in school and often facilitate their search for employment after graduation. The internship component of the MCRP program also is an important vehicle for fulfilling the public service mission of the Community and Regional Planning Program, the College of Architecture, and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln.</p>				<p class="content-box-m-p">ACE REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-2">Achievement-Centered Education (ACE)</p>				<p class="basic-text">The University of Nebraska–Lincoln requires all students receive a broad general education as part of their academic experience. This requirement translates into the obligation of all students to fulfill the requirements of the ACE program. Information about the ACE program may be viewed at ace.unl.edu.</p>				<p class="title-3">English</p>				<p class="basic-text">It is of vital importance that architects and interior designers be able to express themselves clearly and concisely. As a matter of routine, architects and interior designers are called upon to prepare reports, papers, or specifications in which clarity and precision are essential. For this reason, a student is required to do more than meet the English composition course requirement. In daily oral and written work the student must demonstrate an acceptable skill in the use of effective English. The dean may require students who fail to meet acceptable standards to do additional work in English composition or speech communication. Each instructor is expected to bring to the dean’s attention the students who need additional work.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students are expected to take ENGL 101 plus ENGL 151. Or they may take ENGL 150 plus ENGL 151. ENGL 186, 187 and 192 may not be used to satisfy the freshman English composition requirement.</p>				<p class="title-3">Mathematics</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the Architecture Program are required to receive credit for MATH 106. Courses taken as deficiencies to qualify for MATH 106 will not apply as credit toward their degree. Students in Landscape Architecture are required to take either MATH 106 or STAT 218 to fulfill their mathematics requirement. Students in the Interior Design Program are required to take either MATH 203 or STAT 218 to fulfill their mathematics requirement.</p>				<p class="content-box-m-p">BULLETIN RULE </p>				<p class="title-2">Degree Time Limits</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students will be required to complete course work for their degree within a ten year period from the time they are admitted into the professional program in the third year.</p>				<p class="content-box-m-p">COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">Minimum Hours Required for Graduation </p>				<p class="list-indent">BSD in Architecture – 129 hours</p>				<p class="list-indent">BSD in Interior Design – 129 hours</p>				<p class="list-indent">BSD in Landscape Architecture – 129 hours</p>				<p class="title-1">Grading Appeals</p>				<p class="basic-text">A student wishing to appeal a grade should contact his or her professor for clarification first before an appeal can be filed. If the dispute cannot be resolved with the instructor it is recommended that the student meet with their adviser to get clarification on the appeals process. Appeals are only considered where it can be demonstrated that prejudice or capricious treatment influenced the grade received by the student.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Having exhausted these avenues, a student may then choose to make a formal appeal. The appeal is in the form of a written statement from the student to the program chair. The Chair will then forward the letter to the Faculty Affairs Committee. The deadline for filing a grade appeal (which includes a written statement from the student) is 30 calendar days after the first day of classes of the next regular semester (fall or spring). Appeals filed after the deadline will not be heard.</p>				<p class="title-2">Incomplete Grades</p>				<p class="basic-text">Incompletes for students in the pre-professional program shall be granted only for reasons outlined in the policy statement adopted by the University Senate. See the UNL Schedule of Classes for the complete text.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Incompletes given to students in the professional program are granted at the discretion of the faculty awarding the grade. The faculty and student together must file an incomplete form in the department office to register the anticipated completion date and the grade that will be registered if the work is not completed by that time.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Architecture students will be allowed a maximum of two weeks to remove incompletes from courses that are prerequisites to classes in which they are currently enrolled or they will be administratively dropped from those courses.</p>				<p class="title-2">Scholastic Standing </p>				<p class="basic-text">The following scholastic standards have been established to maintain the level of quality for students enrolled in the Architecture Program: </p>				<p class="title-3">Pre-Professional Program, Architecture, Landscape Architecture and Interior Design</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the first year are required to maintain both a semester and cumulative grade point average at or above 2.0. The standard rises to a grade point average of 2.6 in the second year. Admission into the third year of all programs requires a cumulative grade point average of 2.6. The College places students who fail to meet these standards on academic probation.</p>				<p class="title-3">Third and Fourth Year, Architecture</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the third and fourth year of the BSD program are required to meet two parallel academic standards. First the student must maintain a semester grade point average of 2.6 to remain in good academic standing. The Program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation. Further, students whose GPA for the academic year is between 2.6 and 3.0 are required to submit their studio work for review by the Student Affairs Committee for determination of continuance in the program or repetition of the year’s studio sequence.</p>				<p class="title-3">Third and Fourth Year, Interior Design and Landscape Architecture</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the third and fourth year of the BSD program are required to maintain a 2.6 cumulative grade point average to remain in good academic standing. The Program also requires that students earn a grade of a C or higher in all required courses. The Program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation.</p>				<p class="title-3">Fifth and Sixth Year, Architecture</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the MArch program are required to maintain a semester grade point average of 3.0 to remain in good academic standing. The Program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation.</p>				<p class="title-2">Minimum Grades</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students must earn at least a C (2.0) in all courses with an ARCH, IDES, or LARC prefix to earn credit toward their degree. Students will be required to retake all core required courses with a grade of C- or below, but will not be required to repeat courses that were taken as electives.</p>				<p class="title-2">Removal of Grades C- or Below</p>				<p class="basic-text">A professional student receiving a grade of C- or below for an overall course grade may remove that grade by retaking the same course again and receiving a higher grade. The higher grade will be used to compute the student’s cumulative grade point average, but all grades appear on the student’s transcript. The Pass/No Pass option cannot be used to remove these grades from the grade point average. Please be advised that once a course is no longer taught and no longer offered by the department it is not possible to remove a grade of C- or below through substitution or any other means.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Should you perform poorly in many courses during a semester it is possible to bankrupt the entire semester’s grades. This is a drastic action and should be pursued only after a visit with your adviser.</p>				<p class="title-3">Pass/No Pass Limits </p>				<p class="basic-text">None of the required classes offered in the professional program are offered Pass/No Pass, but a maximum of 12 Pass/No Pass credit hours of humanities, social sciences, or open electives may be taken from departments outside the College of Architecture.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Courses taken outside the Architecture or Interior Design Programs to fulfill the upper level outside elective requirement at the 800 level or 900 level, with or without a 400-level counterpart, in a minor, collateral, or supporting area of work, can be taken on a Pass/No Pass basis.</p>				<p class="title-1">Transfer Credit Rules</p>				<p class="basic-text">All professional credit earned at another university to be applied toward the master of architecture degree must be approved by the Professional Program Committee in cooperation with the program director. At least 50 percent of the required course work for the professional degree must be completed at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln with the exception of those students who are applying to enter the program with a four year degree from an accredited architecture program. No professional transfer credit will be accepted from a non-accredited architecture program.</p>				<p class="title-2">College Evaluation of Transfer Credit</p>				<p class="basic-text">First time students transferring to the College of Architecture from a similar accredited professional degree program will be evaluated on the basis of the current undergraduate bulletin in effect at the time the student enrolls in the College of Architecture.</p>				<p class="title-3">Process</p>				<p class="basic-text">The program director will select and identify those courses that are applicable to the Professional Program in Architecture, Interior Design, and Landscape Architecture Programs. The College of Architecture will not accept courses for transfer which are below a 2.0 on a 4-point scale.</p>				<p class="title-3">Evaluation of Technical and Nonaccredited Transfer Credits</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who desire to transfer credits from technical or nonaccredited colleges must have architecture credits evaluated by the director and/or appropriate program representatives. Non-architecture credits will be evaluated by the appropriate university department.</p>				<p class="title-3">Evaluation of Graphics, Design, and Production Drawing Credit</p>				<p class="basic-text">Transfer credit for graphics, basic and architectural and/or interior design work and production drawings will not be granted until the student’s work has been reviewed by the Architecture or Interior Design Program Director. Allowable transfer credit in the design, production drawings, and graphics areas, whether the grades presented are C, B, or A, will be determined from this review and the student placed accordingly.</p>				<p class="title-3">Confirmation procedure:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. It is the student’s responsibility to initiate this task,</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. The student procedure is to obtain the confirmation form from the Program Office and to seek review of appropriate materials, and</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. A “portfolio review” will determine confirmation of credit. This review will be done by the appropriate faculty member or committee.</p>				<p class="title-3">Evaluation of General Education Credits</p>				<p class="basic-text">Transfer students who have formally applied for admission will have their academic credits evaluated by the University Office of Registration and Records and the College of Architecture. The College will evaluate all hours submitted on an admission application but reserves the right to reject any of these credits.</p>				<p class="title-3">Clarification and Appeal</p>				<p class="basic-text">The student who has questions about or wishes to appeal the initial College evaluation of his or her transfer credit should contact the Program Office. If the evaluation is not satisfactorily resolved, the student has the right to register an appeal with the Student Affairs Committee of the Architecture or Interior Design Programs.</p>				<p class="title-1">Independent Study</p>				<p class="basic-text">Credit hours earned through independent study (ARCH 398, 498, 598 and 898; LARC 398, 498, 598; and IDES 398, 498, 898) need to be formally arranged with the faculty member supervising the work prior to registration for those credit hours. This is accomplished through completion of the Independent Study Contract available in the Program Office. It must have the signature of the faculty sponsor and be filed with the Program Office in order to be valid.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students are limited to a total of <span class="basic-text-bold">9 credit hours </span>of independent study over the course of their academic career in the professional program.</p>				<p class="title-1">Other College Degree Requirements</p>				<p class="title-2">Off-Campus Programs</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College of Architecture recognizes the need for some students to pursue their pre-architecture, pre-landscape architecture, and pre-interior design studies at other institutions. Up to two semesters (30 semester credit hours) of off-campus study should cause minimal delay in students’ educational timetables if courses can be selected from the following list and are approved by the College of Architecture. Students are encouraged to coordinate their off-campus Pre-Architecture, Pre-Landscape Architecture and Pre-Interior Design Programs with the College of Architecture.</p>				<p class="title-2">Recommended Courses</p>				<p class="list">Art Studio elective (10 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">Calculus (5 hrs) for pre-architecture/landscape architecture or Statistics (3 hrs) for pre-interior design/landscape architecture</p>				<p class="list">English Composition electives (6 hrs)</p>				<p class="list">Humanities and Social Sciences electives (9 hrs) <span class="list-ital">See UNL ACE requirements.</span></p>				<p class="list">Physics (4 hrs) for pre-architecture or Natural Science (4 hrs) for pre-interior design</p>				<p class="list">Speech (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DEGREES &amp; MAJORS</p>				<p class="title-1">Organization and Degrees</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College of Architecture consists of four academic programs: architecture, interior design, landscape architecture, and community and regional planning. Architecture, interior design, and landscape architecture all have a two year pre-professional program followed by professional degree programs. In architecture, it is a four year program in which students get a bachelor of science in design (BSD) degree and the professional master of architecture (MArch) degree. The landscape architecture program is three years in which students receive a BSD followed by the professional bachelor of landscape architecture (BLA) degree. The interior design program is two years and culminates in the professional BSD degree. The Community and Regional Planning Program is exclusively a graduate degree program.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Both architecture and interior design have post professional MS research degrees and architecture has a PhD degree program with the College of Education and Human Sciences.</p>				<p class="title-2">Community and Regional Planning</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Community and Regional Planning Program offers the two-year professional master of community and regional planning degree which is fully accredited by the Planning Accreditation Board (PAB).</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">GRADUATE STUDENT INFORMATION</p>				<p class="title-1">Graduate and Professional Teaching and Research Assistantships</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College of Architecture has several teaching and research assistantships available each year. Students accepted into the master of architecture program, MS, and PhD/EdD programs or those who are in the process of making application for admission to the master of architecture program are encouraged to apply for these assistantships. A brief letter of interest and qualifications plus completed graduate assistantship recommendation forms (which are available in the Architecture Program Office) should be sent to the Architecture Program before March 1 of each year for consideration for the fall semester and November 1 for the spring semester.</p>				<p class="title-2">Course Hold for Professional Credit</p>				<p class="basic-text">Seniors who have obtained in advance the approval of the Architecture Program director may receive up to 12 hours credit towards their MArch degree prior to the completion of their BSD degree provided the following conditions are met:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">they are above the courses required for their BSD degree;</li>					<li class="bullet-1">are taken under the 500 number; and</li>					<li class="bullet-1">are taken in the calendar year prior to the receipt of the BSD.</li>				</ul>				<p class="content-box-h-1">MINORS &amp; AREAS OF SPECIALIZATIONS OFFERED</p>				<p class="title-1">Landscape Architecture</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Landscape Architecture minor is administered through the College of Architecture’s Landscape Architecture program. </p>				<p class="basic-text">Students can earn a minor in landscape architecture by completion of the following course work:</p>				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Core Requirements 10</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ARCH 240 History of Architecture 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HORT 200 Landscape &amp; Environmental Appreciation 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HORT 498 Topics in Landscape Architecture 1</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ARCH 360 Site Context Issues 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Elective Requirements 6-8</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span> 3-4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">HORT 130 Intro to Horticulture Science (4 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">HORT 212 Landscape Plants I (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">HORT 214 Perennials (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">HORT 266 Intro to Landscape Design (4 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span> 3-4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">HORT 339/ARCH 467 Planting Design (4 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">HORT 341/ARCH 468 Landscape Construction (3 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">HORT 469/ARCH 469 Senior Design (4 cr)</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students can earn a minor for any course of study defined by the faculty offering the courses related to the minor. This generally requires additional work on top of that defined in the professional curriculum.</p>				<p class="content-box-m-p">OTHER </p>				<p class="title-1">Ownership of Class Work</p>				<p class="basic-text">Significant student work will be retained on file by the program each semester as a necessary record for accrediting purposes and periodic display. Other student work must be retrieved by the student no later than seven working days past the end of the semester.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College of Architecture is not responsible for storing or returning student work. In addition, all padlocks left on lockers will be cut, and the materials in the lockers confiscated after completion of spring semester.</p>				<p class="title-2">Nonprofessional Master of Science Degree and PhD/EdD Degrees</p>				<p class="basic-text">The scholarly-nonprofessional master of science degree is a scholarly, research-based curriculum. For more information, please see the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Graduate Bulletin.</p>				<p class="title-1">Community and Regional Planning Program</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair:</span> Kim Wilson, 302 Architecture Hall</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors: </span>Scholz, Wilson</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor:</span> Cantarero</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Nam, Tang</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors Emeritus:</span> Fischer, Hulvershorn</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Community and Regional Planning Program offers the master of community and regional planning (MCRP) degree; however, several courses in the Department are also offered at the advanced undergraduate level and are available to undergraduate students in all majors.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The master of community and regional planning degree program provides preparation for professional planning practice in the public, private, and nonprofit sectors.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Planning is an interdisciplinary problem-solving profession that influences a broad range of future-oriented decision making. Planners work with individuals, groups, and organizations to formulate plans, policies, and strategies through which desired change can be achieved. Planners utilize a wide variety of methods and techniques to identify problems and needs and to formulate plans of action that effectively address those needs. Planners often need to accommodate differing viewpoints in the process of formulating desirable and compatible plan and policy recommendations.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The MCRP degree program emphasizes the understanding of the importance of and interrelationships among human resources, natural resources, socio-cultural characteristics, economic activity, political and institutional roles, and characteristics of the natural and built environment. The program provides students with a sound foundation in planning theory, methods, process, and application–a background which enables graduates to formulate, initiate, and coordinate a broad range of planning and development actions.</p>				<p class="title-2">Master of Community and Regional Planning Curriculum</p>				<p class="basic-text">The MCRP degree program requires completion of 48 graduate credit hours, 24 of which are in a required core curriculum.</p>				<p class="title-3">Required Core Courses</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CRPL 400/800 Intro to Planning 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CRPL 802 Planning Theory 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CRPL 804 Legal Aspects of Planning 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CRPL 810 Qualitative Techniques for Planners 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CRPL 830 Intro to Computers in Planning 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CRPL 840 Planning Methods &amp; Analysis 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CRPL 900 Professional Planning Practice 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CRPL 990 Planning Studio 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Required Core Course Credit Hours 24</p>				<p class="title-3">Elective Courses</p>				<p class="basic-text">In addition to the required core courses in the MCRP program, students must complete at least 9 graduate credit hours in an area of concentration and 15 graduate credit hours in one of the following three tracks: 1) 9 credit hours of approved electives, a 6-credit-hour masters thesis, and an oral examination; 2) 9 credit hours of approved electives, a 6-credit-hour professional project, and an oral examination; or 3) 15 credit hours of approved electives and a comprehensive written examination.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The written comprehensive examination for track 3 is scheduled and administered by the Department typically no more than once each semester. The examination must be taken on one of the examination dates established by the Department. The examination covers the student’s program of studies for the MCRP degree, as approved by the Department and the Office of Graduate Studies.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Five areas of concentration are offered by the Department: 1) physical planning, 2) social planning, 3) environmental planning, 4) economic development planning, and 5) transportation planning. Courses in these concentrations are offered inside and outside the Department. Other individualized areas of concentration may be proposed and pursued by students, subject to approval by the Department graduate committee.</p>				<p class="title-2">Dual Degree Programs</p>				<p class="basic-text">The MCRP degree may be pursued within either of three dual degree programs at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln.</p>				<p class="basic-text">One program is the MCRP/JD dual degree program, offered in collaboration with the College of Law. This program enables completion of both the MCRP degree and the juris doctor degree in a four-year period.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The second program is the MCRP/MArch dual degree program, offered in collaboration with the Architecture Program. This program enables completion of both the MCRP degree and the master of architecture degree in a three-year period. This program is intended for persons who hold the bachelor of science in design (BSD) or equivalent undergraduate degree.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The third program is the MCRP/MS-CE (transportation specialization) in collaboration with the Civil Engineering Department. Persons interested in the dual degree programs should inquire with the chairperson of the Community and Regional Planning Program.</p>				<p class="title-2">Interdepartmental Programs</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Community and Regional Planning Program cooperates with other disciplines in offering courses for three designated interdepartmental areas: 1) Water Resources Planning and Management, 2) Public Policy Analysis and Program Evaluation, and 3) Environmental Studies. Persons interested in these areas in conjunction with the MCRP degree should consult with the Chair of the Community and Regional Planning Program.</p>				<p class="title-2">Admission to the Master of Community and Regional Planning Program</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students with diverse undergraduate, graduate, and professional backgrounds are encouraged to enter the MCRP degree program. No prior course work in planning is required. However, applicants are expected to have completed at least one course each in statistics, economics, and the social sciences, with a grade of C or better. The Department graduate committee may specify how the applicant is to make up deficiencies in any of these areas.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Applications for admission to the MCRP degree program must be submitted by March 15 for fall semester admission and by November 1 for spring semester admission. Applications must include the following:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Application for Admission to the Graduate College form, submitted to:</p>				<p class="list-indent">Office of Graduate Studies</p>				<p class="list-indent">University of Nebraska–Lincoln</p>				<p class="list-indent">1100 Seaton Hall</p>				<p class="list-indent">Lincoln, NE 68588-0619</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Two official copies of all college transcripts, submitted to the Office of Graduate Studies;</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Official score report for the Graduate Record Exam General Test, submitted to the Office of Graduate Studies;</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Three letters of recommendation on standard Graduate Studies forms, submitted to:</p>				<p class="list-indent">Community and Regional Planning Program</p>				<p class="list-indent">University of Nebraska–Lincoln</p>				<p class="list-indent">302 Architecture Hall</p>				<p class="list-indent">PO Box 880105</p>				<p class="list-indent">Lincoln, NE 68588-0105</p>				<p class="numbered-list">5. An essay responding to program application form questions, submitted to the Program office.</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>