<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>AandS</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="aands">			<div class="story">				<p class="college-name">College of Arts &amp; Sciences</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION </p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">David C. Manderscheid, Ph.D., Dean and Professor of Mathematics</span></p>				<p class="faculty-list">Amy Goodburn, Ph.D., Associate Dean for Faculty and Professor of English</p>				<p class="faculty-list">Sunil Narumalani, Ph.D., Associate Dean for Academic Programs and Professor of Geography</p>				<p class="faculty-list">Gregory Snow, Ph.D., Associate Dean for Research and Professor of Physics and Astronomy</p>				<p class="faculty-list">Alecia Kimbrough, M.B.A, Assistant Dean for Business and Finance and Staff</p>				<p class="faculty-list">William Watts, M.A., Assistant Dean for Advising Services</p>				<p class="header-paragraph">For additional information or questions, contact:</p>				<p class="list-indent">Bill Watts</p>				<p class="list-indent">Assistant Dean for Advising Services</p>				<p class="list-indent">107 Oldfather Hall</p>				<p class="list-indent">PO Box 880330</p>				<p class="list-indent">Lincoln, NE 68588-0330</p>				<p class="list-indent">402/472-4190</p>				<p class="title-1">Mission</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">To educate undergraduate students of the College of Arts and Sciences to a high level of competence in their major fields through instruction that integrates formal course work with experience in research and creative activity.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">To advance knowledge through research and creative activity that are national and international in stature.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">To provide all undergraduate students with a range of knowledge and a broad intellectual experience that can form the basis for critical and imaginative thinking, thereby enabling them to become tolerant and responsible members of a global society.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">To provide undergraduate and graduate students across the campus with courses in the arts, humanities, social sciences, and sciences to meet their academic needs in their major programs.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">To serve the university and community-at-large and provide educational leadership for the state and region.</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-2">Careers</p>				<p class="basic-text">The possibilities are endless. Society has a growing need for graduates with the thinking and communication skills developed while obtaining a liberal arts degree, and who are broadly educated to be adaptable to the needs of a rapidly changing society.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Arts and sciences graduates have become financial planners, radiologists, teachers, doctors, airline pilots, ministers, lawyers, public relations directors, and resource managers.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Often there is no direct link between a student’s academic major and career choice. A student does not have to be a biology major to become a physician. Not all history majors become historians. The major is only one part of a student’s career preparation; it is a foundation for the entire program at the university, which may also include a minor, internships, special studies, and co-curricular activities.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College works closely with Career Services, 230 Nebraska Union, to help students with their career planning. In addition, the Chief Advisers provide information and guidance.</p>				<p class="content-box-m-p">ADMISSION</p>				<p class="title-1">College Admission </p>				<p class="basic-text">The entrance requirements for the College of Arts and Sciences are the same as the UNL General Admission Requirements. Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL. These conditions are explained under “Removal of Deficiencies.”</p>				<p class="basic-text">In addition to these requirements, the College of Arts and Sciences strongly recommends a third and fourth year of languages. Four years of high school language will exempt students from the College of Arts and Sciences’ 16-hour language requirement. It will also allow students to continue language study at a more advanced level, and give more opportunity to study abroad.</p>				<p class="title-2">Transfer Students</p>				<p class="basic-text">To be considered for admission a transfer student, Nebraska resident or nonresident, must have an accumulated average of C (2.0 on a 4.0 scale) and a minimum C average in the last semester of attendance at another college. Transfer students who graduated from high school January 1997 and after must also meet the UNL General Admissions Requirements. Those transfer students who graduated before January 1997 must have completed in high school 3 years of English, 2 years of the same foreign language, 2 years of algebra, and 1 year of geometry. Transfer students who have completed less than 12 credit hours of college study must submit either the ACT or SAT scores.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Ordinarily, hours earned at an accredited college are accepted by the University. The College, however, will evaluate all hours submitted on an application for transfer and reserves the right to accept or reject any of them. Sixty-six is the maximum number of hours the University will accept on transfer from a two-year college. Transfer credit in the major must be approved by the major adviser on a Request for Substitution Form to meet specific course requirements, group requirements, or course level requirements in the major. At least 9 hours in the major field must be completed at the University regardless of the number of hours transferred.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College of Arts and Sciences will accept no more than 15 semester hours of C- and D grades from other schools. The C- and D grades cannot be applied toward requirements for a major or minor. This policy does not apply to the transfer of grades from UNO or UNK to UNL. All D grades may be transferred from UNO or UNK, but they are not applicable to a major or minor.</p>				<p class="title-2">Readmitted Students</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students readmitted to the College of Arts and Sciences will follow the requirements stated in the bulletin for the academic year of readmission and reenrollment as a degree-seeking student in Arts and Sciences. In consultation with advisers, a student may choose to follow a bulletin for any academic year in which they are admitted to and enrolled as a degree-seeking student at UNL in the College of Arts and Sciences. Students must complete all degree requirements from a single bulletin year. Beginning in 1990-1991, the bulletin which a student follows for degree requirements may not be more than 10 years old at the time of graduation.</p>				<p class="title-1">Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies </p>				<p class="basic-text">You must remove entrance deficiencies before you can graduate from the College of Arts and Sciences. For students entering August 1997 or later and who graduated from high school January 1997 and after, courses taken to remove a high school core course deficiency may not be counted toward either the major, minor, college degree requirements, or university comprehensive education requirements. They may only be counted in the “electives” category in meeting degree requirements. The most common deficiencies are in foreign languages and mathematics.</p>				<p class="title-2">Removing Foreign Language Deficiencies</p>				<p class="basic-text">A student who has had fewer than two years of one foreign language in high school will need 130 semester hours as a minimum for a degree from the College of Arts and Sciences. A student will also need to complete the “102” course in a language to clear the deficiency and the “202” course to complete the college graduation requirement in language.</p>				<p class="title-2">Removing Mathematics Deficiencies</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. A deficiency of one year of geometry can be removed by taking two high school geometry courses by Independent Study or by completing a geometry course from an accredited community college or a four-year institution. Neither of these options count for college credit.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. A deficiency of the first year of algebra can be removed by taking two high school Algebra I courses through Extended Education (not for college credit).</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. A deficiency of the second year of algebra can be removed by taking MATH 95C (not for college credit) or MATH 100A (may be taken for college credit but does not apply toward graduation).</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. A student whose deficiency is the additional (fourth) year of mathematics that builds on algebra must successfully complete MATH 101, 102, or 103, or an equivalent course at another institution.</p>				<p class="title-2">Removing Other Deficiencies</p>				<p class="basic-text">Contact the Arts and Sciences Advising Center for specific courses to remove other entrance deficiencies.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADVISING</p>				<p class="title-1">Academic Advising</p>				<p class="basic-text">All students in the College of Arts and Sciences are assigned to an academic adviser to help them plan their academic careers and select appropriate courses. Incoming freshmen are counseled during New Student Enrollment by specially trained advisers from the Arts and Sciences Advising Center.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who have <span class="basic-text-bold">not</span> decided on a major field of study will be assigned an adviser in the College Advising Center. Students “declaring” a major, changing majors (or colleges), or needing help with problems should also visit the Advising Center.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who <span class="basic-text-bold">have</span> decided on (declared) a major, a pre-health area or pre-law will be assigned to an adviser by the appropriate chief adviser. The chief advisers and the Advising Center also are available to answer questions about majors, minors, and pre-health areas and pre-law a student is considering.</p>				<p class="basic-text">For complete and current information on chief advisers for majors, minors, and pre-health areas and pre-law, contact the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall, 472-4190.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</p>				<p class="title-1">Course Exclusions &amp; Restrictions</p>				<p class="title-2">Course Exclusions</p>				<p class="basic-text">No credit for graduation is allowed for non-college level courses or for courses that deal primarily with the development of skills including the following:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Driver training education</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Industrial arts (including courses concerned primarily with manual skills, tools, machines, or industrial processes and design) For example at UNL: TEAC 101, 102, 103, 104, 109, 201, 203, 204, 205, 206, 229, 242, 243, 300, 301, 340, 346.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Agricultural education (credit is allowed for ALEC 102, 202, 337, 494, 496; or ALEC courses cross-listed with departments from which Arts and Sciences applies credit for graduation)</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Any introduction computer course training in DOS, word processing, spread-sheets, data base management, or other business software packages (CSCE 137 or BSAD 150 or AGRI 271)</li>					<li class="bullet-1">MATH 100A</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-2">Course Restrictions</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students majoring in the College of Arts and Sciences my use courses in the following areas toward their degree within the following limits:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 12 hours religion courses that advocate the doctrine or belief of a particular faith. This 12 hour limit does not apply to religious studies courses whose method and approach conforms to the standards of critical scholarship in the academic study of the humanities and social sciences.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 15 hours of C- and D grades are transferable from colleges outside UNL. The C- and D grades cannot apply to majors or minors. All C- and D grades from UNO or UNK may be transferred but they are not applicable to a major or minor.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 66 hours accepted from a community college.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 30 hours of clinical courses.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 16 hours of applied music lessons and/or music ensemble.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 4 hours Activity PE, Athletic Practice, or Basic Military Science with a maximum of 1 credit hour per semester.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 12 hours total from any combination of the following areas:</li>				</ul>				<p class="list-indent">First Aid (NUTR 170 at UNL)</p>				<p class="list-indent">Orientation and Study Skills. For example at UNL: ALEC 397E and 397K (neither course is applicable to the courses numbered above 299 requirement); ASCI 107; BIOC 101; BIOS 150, 160; EDPS 150, 209; FDST 107; HRFS 183; NRES 101; NUTR 150; PSYC 100, 150; TEAC 210; VBMS 101</p>				<p class="list-indent">Military Science, Naval Science, or Aerospace Studies. (This restriction does not apply to cross-listed courses between military science, naval science, or aerospace studies and departments of the College of Arts and Sciences.)</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 15 hours athletic coaching</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Any restrictions noted specifically by departments. Credit towards the degree may be earned in only one course, including honors sections, from each group of courses listed below:</li>				</ul>				<p class="list-indent">BIOS 312 or AGRO 360</p>				<p class="list-indent">BIOS 313 or 314</p>				<p class="list-indent">CHEM 105, 109, 111, 113,195</p>				<p class="list-indent">CHEM 116 or 221</p>				<p class="list-indent">CHEM 251 and more than 1 cr of CHEM 263</p>				<p class="list-indent">CHEM 471 or 481</p>				<p class="list-indent">CSCE 252D or CSCE 150E</p>				<p class="list-indent">CSCE 252D or ENGM 112</p>				<p class="list-indent">CSCE 252D or ELEC 121</p>				<p class="list-indent">CSCE 340 or 480</p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 210 or 211 and 212 </p>				<p class="list-indent">ECON 215, CRIM 300, EDPS 459 or STAT 218 (was STAT 180)</p>				<p class="list-indent">FREN 201 and 202, or FREN 210</p>				<p class="list-indent">GEOG 150 and/or 152 or 155</p>				<p class="list-indent">GEOL 100 or 101 or 101H</p>				<p class="list-indent">GEOL 103 or 105</p>				<p class="list-indent">GERM 201 and 202, or GERM 210</p>				<p class="list-indent">GREK 102 or 151</p>				<p class="list-indent">LATN 102 or 201</p>				<p class="list-indent">MATH 101 and/or 102 or 103</p>				<p class="list-indent">MATH 104 or 106</p>				<p class="list-indent">MATH 200 or 300</p>				<p class="list-indent">MATH 201 or 301</p>				<p class="list-indent">MATH 340 or ENGM 480</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 141 or 151</p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 151 or MSYM 109</p>				<p class="list-indent">SOCI 205 or CRIM 251</p>				<p class="list-indent">SOCI 209 or CRIM 355</p>				<p class="list-indent">SOCI 311 or CRIM 337</p>				<p class="list-indent">SOCI 474 or CRIM 413</p>				<p class="list-indent">SPAN 201 and 202, or SPAN 210</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">For transfer students, course exclusions and restrictions will be determined on the Evaluation of Transfer credits.</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-1">Credit by Examination</p>				<p class="basic-text">Through study or experience that parallels a University of Nebraska–Lincoln course, a regularly enrolled University student may feel prepared to pass an examination on the course content of a specific course for credit in that course. To apply for credit, a student should:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Consult with the department chair.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Obtain a Credit by Examination Form at the Records Office, 107 Canfield Administration Building, 472-3649. Current enrollment in the University must also be verified.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Secure the approval signature from the department chair, instructor, and the dean of the student’s college. The Dean’s signature can be obtained in the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Secure the bursar’s receipt for payment of the appropriate fee per course for credit by examination. Currently, the fee is one-half the resident tuition rate.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">5. Present the completed form to the instructor designated by the department chair. The instructor will give the examination and report the results on the Credit by Examination Form to the Admissions Office, Alexander Building, 472-0130.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Examination for credit through UNL departments may be taken only by currently enrolled students. A student is not permitted to receive credit by examination in a course which is a prerequisite for a course already taken unless the course and its prerequisites cover essentially different subject matter.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College of Arts and Sciences also gives credit for the subject and general examinations of the College Level Examination Program (CLEP) and the Advanced Placement (AP) Program administered by the College Entrance Examination Board. See the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall, for current policy regarding CLEP and AP examinations.</p>				<p class="title-1">Dual Degrees</p>				<p class="title-2">Two Degrees from Arts and Sciences</p>				<p class="basic-text">A graduate who holds the bachelor of arts degree may earn the bachelor of science degree by completing an additional year of work in residence taking at least 30 more semester hours of course work for a minimum of 155 hours. The student must complete all degree requirements for the second degree, including the scientific base. A graduate who holds the bachelor of science degree may earn the bachelor of arts degree by completing another year of work in residence taking at least 30 semester hours of additional course work for a minimum of 155 hours. The student must complete all degree requirements for the second degree.</p>				<p class="title-2">Two Degrees from UNL</p>				<p class="basic-text">A graduate who holds a bachelors degree from another college at UNL may earn the bachelor of science or bachelor of arts degree from the College of Arts and Sciences by completing an additional year of work in residence taking at least 30 more semester hours of course work beyond the first degree. The student must complete all degree requirements for the arts and sciences degree.</p>				<p class="title-2">Intercollege Studies</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">With College of Fine and Performing Arts: </span>A student in the College of Arts and Sciences pursuing a bachelor of arts degree with a major in arts and sciences may also complete a bachelor of arts major in the College of Fine and Performing Arts. In addition, a student in the College of Fine and Performing Arts pursuing a bachelor of arts degree with a major in fine and performing arts may also complete a bachelor of arts major in the College of Arts and Sciences. The student must complete all degree requirements and a major in the home college and a second bachelor of arts major in the visiting college.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">With College of Journalism and Mass Communications:</span> A student in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications pursuing a bachelor of journalism degree may also complete a second major in the College of Arts and Sciences. In addition to ACE and College of Journalism and Mass Communications requirements, students will be expected to meet all College of Arts and Sciences distribution requirements and major requirements. Because students choosing this option will not be earning a degree from arts and sciences, they will not be eligible for arts and sciences-based scholarships and aid, but they will be eligible for consideration for Phi Beta Kappa.</p>				<p class="title-2">Transfer Students with a Non-UNL Degree</p>				<p class="basic-text"> A transfer student who has received a bachelors degree from another institution must complete at least 30 hours of credit in residence at UNL in addition to transfer credit. Students must complete at least half of their major course work including 6 hours above 299 in their major, and 15 of the 30 hours required above 299 in residence. The student must complete all degree requirements for the arts and sciences degree.</p>				<p class="title-1">Honors Program</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College of Arts and Sciences encourages qualified students to participate in the University Honors Program. In addition, several departments of the College of Arts and Sciences offer special honors sections of regular freshman courses to meet the needs of students with superior preparation in those subjects. In some departments such students may then progress more rapidly into advanced courses.</p>				<p class="title-1">Student Recognition</p>				<p class="title-2">Dean’s List</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College recognizes students for academic achievement during the fall and spring semesters by placement on the College Dean’s List. To qualify for the Dean’s List in the College of Arts and Sciences, students must complete 12 credit hours of course work (courses must be started and completed in one semester) by the census date of the grade reports and attain a minimum semester grade point average of 3.7. The following do not qualify as part of the 12 credit hours: Pass/No Pass credit, transfer hours, removals of incompletes, and grade changes submitted after the census grade reports.</p>				<p class="title-2">Degrees with Distinction</p>				<p class="basic-text">In recognition of outstanding academic excellence, the College recommends the bachelors degree With Distinction, With High Distinction, and With Highest Distinction. The recommendations are made by the Committee on Academic Distinction and Awards for Students. To be recommended for distinction, candidates must fulfill the specific criteria for Highest Distinction, High Distinction, or Distinction, as described below in addition to all of the general criteria and procedures applicable to all distinction classifications.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Highest Distinction.</span> Candidates for the bachelors degree may be recommended for “Highest Distinction” on the basis of the following criteria: outstanding scholastic standing (cum GPA of 3.92 or above) and the highest recommendation based upon a thesis or comparable creative effort and a comprehensive examination.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">High Distinction.</span> Candidates for the bachelors degree may be recommended for “High Distinction” by fulfilling one of two sets of criteria: 1) by achieving outstanding scholastic standing (cum GPA of 3.92 or above), or 2) by achieving excellent scholastic standing (cum GPA between 3.85 and 3.92) and by receiving a high recommendation based on a thesis or comparable creative effort and a comprehensive examination.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Distinction.</span> Candidates for the bachelors degree may be recommended for degrees for “Distinction” by achieving one of two sets of criteria: 1) by excellent scholastic standing (cum GPA between 3.85 and 3.92), or 2) by achieving high scholastic standing of at least a cumulative grade point average of 3.5 and by receiving a recommendation for distinction based on a thesis or comparable creative effort and a comprehensive examination. No student will be considered for distinction with a cum GPA below 3.5.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The following criteria apply to all categories:</span> The Committee may consider especially the work of the last two years, and ordinarily only students who have taken their last 48 hours of graded course work while registered in the College of Arts and Sciences are considered. The Committee reviews both grades and the program of courses.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who choose one of the thesis options described above should make arrangements with their academic adviser and major department. They should register for the independent study course in their major area of study (usually 399H), typically, starting with the semester prior to the semester in which they plan to graduate. A thesis prospectus form is to be filed by each student in the semester prior to graduation. This thesis prospectus form must be approved by two faculty co-advisers who have agreed to guide the student’s work. The student will submit the completed thesis to the same faculty co-advisers for final evaluation.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The deadline for the designated departmental distinction group to submit a student’s materials to the Dean’s office for consideration for distinction is six weeks prior to the Monday following commencement, except for the August commencement in which case the deadline is four weeks prior to the Friday before commencement. These materials must include a copy of the student’s thesis, the student’s thesis prospectus form, and the thesis evaluation form in support of a degree with distinction. The forms are available in 107 and 1223 Oldfather Hall and can also be found on the college Web site at http://ascweb.unl.edu/students/distinction.html. Students are urged to contact the department in which they are writing a thesis for department deadlines.</p>				<p class="basic-text">A degree with Distinction is an award which is recommended by the Committee on Academic Distinction and Awards for Students after it carefully weighs and considers all aspects of a student’s record: the GPA, the number of courses taken Pass/No Pass, number of courses at the 300/400 level, the strength of the program, and (when submitted) the quality of the thesis as defined by evaluations provided by the co-advisers and the major department.</p>				<p class="title-1">College Scholarships</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Dean’s Office of the College of Arts and Sciences, in conjunction with the College Committee on Student Academic Distinction Awards and Appeals, chooses recipients for College scholarships and also recommends students for certain scholarships awarded by the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid and by external agencies. For a complete list of the scholarships awarded by the College, see http://ascweb.unl.edu/students/scholarships.html.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Many of the College scholarships require demonstrated need. If you wish to be considered for any of these scholarships, it is necessary that you also complete the following on-line applications:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">A. Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by going to www.fafsa.ed.gov</p>				<p class="numbered-list">B. The Upper Class Scholarship Application with the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid.</p>				<p class="title-2">Departmental Scholarships</p>				<p class="basic-text">There are numerous awards and scholarships earmarked for specific majors, all of which are administered individually by the departments in the College of Arts and Sciences. To find out which scholarships you might be eligible for and the procedures for applying, please contact the appropriate Department for information.</p>				<p class="title-2">University Scholarships</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid administer numerous funds. Consideration for these scholarships is based on submission of the Upper Class Scholarship Application. This is an on-line application that can be found at www.unl.edu/scholfa/.</p>				<p class="title-2">Other Scholarships</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Edythe Wiebers International Studies Program Scholarship. Special application forms can be obtained from college offices across campus and from the International Affairs Office.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship. Contact Dr. Patrice Berger in the University Honors Program for more information and application materials.</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-2">Fulbright-Hays Fellowships</p>				<p class="basic-text">These fellowships are awarded annually and selections are made by various national committees from the applications submitted. Graduating seniors interested in applying should contact:</p>				<p class="basic-text">Institute for International Studies</p>				<p class="basic-text">University of Nebraska</p>				<p class="basic-text">1237 R Street</p>				<p class="basic-text">PO Box 880221</p>				<p class="basic-text">Lincoln, NE 68508-0221</p>				<p class="header-paragraph">Campus deadline for submitting applications is October 1.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> Students who wish to pursue graduate work should inquire in the Office of Graduate Studies, 301 Canfield Administration Building, concerning scholarships, fellowships, and assistantships open to graduating seniors.</p>				<p class="title-1">International Study/Study Abroad</p>				<p class="title-2">International Opportunities</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College supports the following international interdisciplinary programs offering a major or a minor: African American and African Studies, Asian Studies, European Studies, International Studies, and Latino and Latin American Studies. Departments and faculty in the College of Arts and Sciences are also actively involved as sponsors, teachers and leaders in many of the numerous Study Abroad programs administered by the Office of International Affairs.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College encourages students to study overseas as part of their University experience. The University participates in exchange and several formal study abroad programs world-wide and Nebraska Semester Abroad. International Affairs can arrange for individuals to earn University credit for study at foreign universities. The International Affairs Office has study abroad, overseas opportunities, and flights and study tours programs that assist students wishing to participate in overseas studies.</p>				<p class="title-1">Senior Check/Degree Audit</p>				<p class="basic-text">In the term after which a student has completed 85 hours, Graduation Services in Registration and Records, 109 Canfield Administration Building, will perform a “senior check.” Students will be provided with a copy of the senior check. This check will inform students about the requirements that still need to be fulfilled in their chosen degree program. Questions about remaining requirements should be directed to the chief adviser for the major or the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Each student who expects to receive a diploma must file an application of candidacy for the diploma in the Office of Registration and Records, 107 Canfield Administration Building. Announcements about deadline dates are posted on bulletin boards and the online University calendar, and are printed in the Daily Nebraskan.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students are responsible for informing the Office of Registration and Records of their graduation plans, including their addresses; the manner in which they are completing their requirements such as by correspondence, by clearance of incompletes, by enrollment at another institution, by taking special examinations, etc.; and of any later revision of such plans. Failure to follow this procedure may cause postponement of graduation until a later semester.</p>				<p class="title-1">Classification of Students</p>				<p class="title-3">Freshman Program</p>				<p class="basic-text">The first-year program is designed to give students a broad basis for future study. It includes English composition, a foreign language, and courses in science, the humanities, social sciences or mathematics for a total of about 12-15 hours per semester. During this year, the student will progress toward meeting University ACE requirements and will have an opportunity to explore various areas of study while starting or deciding upon a major. With the help of New Student Enrollment and their academic advisers, students choose specific courses according to their needs and interests.</p>				<p class="title-2">Class Standing</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Sophomore Standing.</span> For admission to sophomore standing a student must have completed all of the College entrance requirements, earned a minimum of 27 semester hours of credit, and attained a total grade point average of at least C.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Junior Standing.</span> A student has junior standing after meeting the requirements for sophomore standing and completing 53 semester hours of credit.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Senior Standing.</span> A student has senior standing after meeting the requirements for junior standing and completing 89 semester hours of credit.</p>				<p class="title-1">Substitutions and Waivers</p>				<p class="basic-text">Special requests concerning degree programs, including inquiries about exceptions to degree requirements, waivers, and substitutions should be made to the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</p>				<p class="content-box-m-p">ACHIEVEMENT-CENTERED EDUCATION (ACE) REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="basic-text">Consistent with the mission and values of the University, ACE is based on a shared set of four institutional objectives and 10 student learning outcomes. The ACE program was approved by faculty in all eight undergraduate colleges and endorsed by the Faculty Senate, the student government, and the Academic Planning Committee in January 2008 for implementation in the fall 2009. ACE aligns with current national initiatives in general education.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Key characteristics of ACE demonstrate the benefits of the program to students:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Students receive a broad education with exposure to multiple disciplines, critical life skills and important reasoning, inquiry, and civic capacities. </li>					<li class="bullet-1">ACE is simple and transparent for students, faculty and advisers. Students complete the equivalent of 3 credit hours for each of the ten student learning outcomes.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Students connect and integrate their ACE experiences with their selected major. </li>					<li class="bullet-1">Students can transfer all ACE certified courses across colleges within the institution to meet the ACE requirement and any course from outside the institution that is directly equivalent to a UNL ACE-certified course. Courses from outside institutions without direct equivalents may be considered with appropriate documentation for ACE credit (see academic adviser). </li>				</ul>				<p class="basic-text">ACE allows faculty to assess and improve their effectiveness and facilitate students’ learning.</p>				<p class="title-1">ACE Institutional Objectives and Student Learning Outcomes</p>				<p class="basic-text">To meet the ACE Program requirement, a student will complete the equivalent of 3 credit hours for each of the ten ACE Student Learning Outcomes (a total of 30 ACE credit hours). See the ACE Web site at: http://ace. unl.edu for the most current information and the most recently certified courses.</p>				<p class="content-box-m-p">COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">College General Education Requirements </p>				<p class="basic-text">The College of Arts and Sciences distribution requirements are designed to further the purposes of liberal education by encouraging study in several different areas. Courses satisfying these requirements may impart specialized knowledge or broadly connect the subject matter to other areas of knowledge. </p>				<p class="basic-text">All requirements are in addition to University ACE requirements. A student may not use a single course to satisfy more than one of the following five distribution requirements. A student cannot use a single course to satisfy both an ACE outcome and a College distribution requirement. Independent study or reading courses and internships cannot be used to satisfy distribution requirements. To see a complete list of excluded courses, run a degree audit through WAM.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Courses from interdisciplinary programs will count in the same area as courses from the home/cross-listed department(s). See <span class="basic-text-bold">http://ascweb.unl.edu/academics/depts.html</span> for a complete list.</p>				<p class="title-2">Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science (19 credits + Language)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">A. Written Communication: 3 hours </p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">To be selected from courses approved for ACE outcome 1.</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">B. Natural, Physical and Mathematical Sciences: 7 hours </p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">From two different departments, including at least one lab science course from the natural or physical sciences. Lab courses may be selected from biochemistry, biological sciences, chemistry, geology, meteorology, physics and astronomy, geography, and anthropology*. All other courses select from: biochemistry, biological sciences, chemistry, computer science and engineering, geology, meteorology, mathematics, physics and astronomy, and statistics.</p>				<p class="asterisk">* See degree audit or College of Arts and Sciences adviser for approved geography and anthropology lab courses, approved non-lab psychology courses, or courses cross-listed with an Arts and Sciences department.</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">C. Humanities: 6 hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">From two different departments, select from classics*, English, history, modern languages and literatures*, philosophy, and religious studies*.</p>				<p class="asterisk">*Language courses numbered 210 or below apply only for the foreign language requirement.</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">D. Social Sciences: 3 hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Select from anthropology, communication studies, geography, political science, psychology, or sociology</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">E. Languages Classical and Modern: 0-6 hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Fulfilled by the completion of the 6-credit-hour second-year sequence in a single foreign language in one of the following departments: Classics and religious studies, modern languages and literatures, or anthropology. Instruction is currently available in Biblical Hebrew, Chinese, Czech, French, German, Greek, Japanese, Latin, Omaha, Russian, and Spanish. A student who has completed the fourth-year level of one foreign language in high school is exempt from the languages requirement. </p>				<p class="title-2">Scientific Base</p>				<p class="basic-text">In addition to University ACE requirements and the College distribution requirements, the bachelor of science degree requires students to complete 60 semester hours in mathematics and natural sciences, including:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. At least one of the following quantitative courses: CSCE 235, MATH 104, PHIL 211, or any mathematics or statistics course numbered 106 or above, except MATH 200 and MATH 201.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. At least one natural or physical science course and at least 1 credit of laboratory work, taken as part of a course or separately, from the following departments: biochemistry, biological sciences, chemistry, geosciences, or physics and astronomy, ANTH 242/242L, GEOG 155, and the following geography techniques courses also apply: GEOG 317, 412, 414, 415, 417, 418, 419, 420, 422, and 425. Other courses that may be applied toward the 60 hour total include courses in actuarial science for which calculus or above is a prerequisite and up to 12 hours of scientific and technical courses offered by other colleges with approval of the academic adviser.</p>				<p class="title-1">Foreign Languages/Language Requirement</p>				<p class="title-2">Languages Exemption Policy</p>				<p class="basic-text">UNL and Arts and Sciences will exempt or waive students from the UNL entrance requirement of two years of the same foreign language or from the College’s language distribution requirement based on documentation only. The following are the options and procedures for documentation:</p>				<p class="title-3">High School Transcripts</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. For the University entrance requirements, students must show an official high school transcript with two or more years of the same foreign language in high school.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. For the College of Arts and Sciences College Distribution Requirements Area 5 languages requirement, students must show an official high school transcript with four or more years of the same foreign language in high school, or show evidence of graduation from a non-English-speaking foreign high school.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. For the College of Arts and Sciences College Distribution Requirements Area 5 languages requirement, students whose native language is not English must show English as a Second Language study on an official high school transcript. Four years of ESL at the high school level (9th, 10th, 11th and 12th grades) will be the basis for a waiver of the Area I Language requirement.</p>				<p class="title-3">Proficiency Examination at UNL</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. For the University entrance requirement, students who do not have transcript documentation can request to take a proficiency exam in the language. (This is not the same test as the Modern Languages Placement Exam.) However, UNL will provide testing only in the languages it teaches. Currently, these languages are:</p>				<p class="list-indent">French</p>				<p class="list-indent">German</p>				<p class="list-indent">Spanish</p>				<p class="list-indent">Russian</p>				<p class="list-indent">Czech</p>				<p class="list-indent">Japanese</p>				<p class="list-indent">Chinese</p>				<p class="list-indent">The Department of Modern Languages will oversee the test and provide written documentation to the Admissions Office that the student has passed the proficiency test at the 102 level.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. For the College of Arts and Sciences College Distribution Requirements Area 5 requirement, the Department of Modern Languages will oversee the test at the 202 level. If the student passes the test, the department will sign the College Request for Waiver form and indicate the level of proficiency. The form is then forwarded to the Arts and Sciences Advising Center for approval.</p>				<p class="title-3">Distance Education</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. For the University entrance requirement, students without transcript documentation who claim proficiency in a language not taught at UNL, have the option of seeking out a distance education program in languages. If the student completes the equivalent of 102 from an approved distance education program, the student will meet the UNL entrance requirement. The student must have the course work approved before he/she takes/completes the course as equivalent to 102 by the modern languages department. The student then completes the course and has the distance education program send the transcript to the Admissions Office.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. For the College of Arts and Sciences College Distribution Requirements Area 5 languages, the student can seek out a distance education program and complete the equivalent of the 202-level course. The student must submit the request on the College Request for Substitution form and have the course work approved by the Department of Modern Languages and the assistant dean for Advising Services. The student then completes the course and has the distance education program send the transcript to the Admissions Office.</p>				<p class="title-3">Third Language Option</p>				<p class="basic-text">If a student demonstrates knowledge of two foreign languages at the 102 level, the College of Arts and Sciences may consider waiving two semesters of the four semester College Distribution Requirements Area 5 languages requirement. If this waiver were granted, the student would then be required to complete 101 and 102 in another (3rd language) at UNL.</p>				<p class="title-1">Minimum Hours Required for Graduation</p>				<p class="basic-text">A minimum of 125 semester hours of credit is required for graduation from the College of Arts and Sciences. Students who enter the College with fewer than two units of one foreign language from high school are required to take 130 semester hours as a minimum for the bachelor of arts or bachelor of science degree. A total grade point average of at least 2.0 is required.</p>				<p class="title-1">Grade Rules </p>				<p class="title-2">Restrictions on C- and D Grades</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College will accept no more than 15 semester hours of C- and D grades from other schools except for UNO and UNK. No transfer C- and D grades can be applied toward requirements in a major or a minor. No UNL C- and D grades can be applied toward requirements in a major or a minor.</p>				<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Privilege</p>				<p class="basic-text">University regulations for the Pass/No Pass (P/N) privilege state:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">The Pass/No Pass option is designed for your use by seeking to expand your intellectual horizons by taking courses in areas where you may have had minimal preparation.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">For students in Arts and Sciences, the University regulations for Pass/No Pass apply as follows:</li>				</ul>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Neither the P nor the N grade contribute to your GPA.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. P is interpreted to mean C or above.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. A change to or from a Pass/No Pass may be made until mid-term (1/2 of the course).</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. The Pass/No Pass or grade registration cannot conflict with the policy of the professor, department, college, or University governing the grading option.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">5. Changing to or from Pass/No Pass requires using the eNRoll system to change the grading option or filing a Drop/Add form with the Registration and Records, 107 Canfield Administration Building. After mid-term of the course, a student registered for Pass/No Pass cannot change to a grade registration unless the Pass/No Pass registration is in conflict with the policy of the professor, department, college, or University governing Pass/No Pass. The Pass/No Pass grading option is not available to students on academic probation unless the course is offered only on a Pass/No Pass basis.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">6. The Pass/No Pass grading option cannot be used for the removal of C- or D or F grades.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Pass/No Pass privileges in the College of Arts and Sciences are extended to students according to the following additional regulations:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Pass/No Pass hours can count toward fulfillment of University ACE requirements and college distribution requirements up to the 24-hour maximum.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Many Arts and Sciences departments and programs do not allow courses in the major or minor to be taken Pass/No Pass; students should refer to the department’s or program’s section of the bulletin for clarification. By college rule, departments can allow up to 6 hours of Pass/No Pass in the major or minor.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Freshmen and sophomores may enroll for no more than 6 hours of P/N work per semester.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Departments may specify that certain courses of theirs can be taken only on a P/N basis.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">5. The college will permit no more than a total of 24 semester hours of P/N grades to be applied toward degree requirements. This total includes all Pass grades earned at UNL and other U.S. schools. <span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span> This 24-hour limit is more restrictive than the University regulation.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph">Students who wish to apply P/N hours to their major and minor(s) must obtain approval on a form that is available in the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</p>				<p class="title-2">Grading Appeals</p>				<p class="basic-text">A student who feels that he/she has been unfairly graded must ordinarily take the following sequential steps in a timely manner, usually by initiating the appeal in the semester following the awarding of the grade:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Talk with the instructor concerned. Most problems are resolved at this point.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Talk to the instructor’s department chairperson.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Take the case to the Grading Appeal Committee of the department concerned. The Committee should be contacted through the department chairperson.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Take the case to the College Grading Appeals Committee by contacting the Dean’s Office, 1223 Oldfather Hall.</p>				<p class="title-1">Course Level Requirements</p>				<p class="title-2">Courses Numbered above 299</p>				<p class="basic-text">Thirty of the 125 (or 130) semester hours of credit must be in courses numbered above 299. Of the 30 hours above 299, 15 hours (1/2) must be completed in residence at UNL. <span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span> ALEC 397E and ALEC 397K do not count toward these 30 hours.</p>				<p class="title-2">Graduate Courses</p>				<p class="basic-text">Seniors in the University who have obtained in advance the approval of the dean for Graduate Studies may receive up to 12 hours credit for graduate courses taken in addition to the courses necessary to complete their undergraduate work, provided that such credits are earned within the calendar year prior to receipt of the baccalaureate. For procedures, inquire at the Office of Graduate Studies.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Course work taken prior to receipt of the baccalaureate may not always be accepted for transfer to other institutions as graduate work.</p>				<p class="title-1">Residency</p>				<p class="title-2">Residency Requirement and Open Enrollment and Summer Independent Study Courses</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students must complete at least 30 of the 125 (or 130) total hours for their degree at UNL. Students must complete at least 1/2 of their major course work including 6 hours above 299 in their major, and 15 of the 30 hours required above 299 in residence. Credit earned during study abroad may be used toward the residency requirement if students register through UNL and participate in prior-approved study abroad programs. UNL open enrollment and summer independent study courses count toward residence.</p>				<p class="title-1">Bulletin Rule </p>				<p class="basic-text">Students must fulfill the requirements stated in the bulletin for the academic year in which they are first admitted to and enrolled as a degree-seeking student at UNL. In consultation with advisers a student may choose to follow a subsequent bulletin for any academic year in which they are admitted to and enrolled as a degree-seeking student at UNL in the College of Arts and Sciences. Students must complete all degree requirements from a single bulletin year. Beginning in 1990-1991 the bulletin which a student follows for degree requirements may not be more than 10 years old at the time of graduation.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DEGREES &amp; MAJORS</p>				<p class="title-1">Degree Programs and Areas of Study</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College of Arts and Sciences offers curricula leading to the degrees of bachelor of arts and bachelor of science.</p>				<p class="title-2">Cross-listed Course Policy</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College of Arts and Sciences recognizes cross-listed courses as equivalent for the purposes of degree requirements. Therefore, a course taken under one department which is cross-listed can be used in all the majors and minors affected by all the cross-listings of the course.</p>				<p class="title-2">Requirements for the Bachelor of Arts Degree</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who wish to graduate with a bachelor of arts degree must complete the College graduation requirements, the University ACE requirements, the College of Arts and Sciences distribution requirements, the requirements for a major, and the requirements for a minor or minors if required by the major.</p>				<p class="title-2">Requirements for the Bachelor of Science Degree</p>				<p class="basic-text">The bachelor of science degree is characterized by a strong prescriptive major, an essential scientific base, and the inclusion of a general liberal education as an important aspect of the degree. Requirements for the BS are the same as those for the BA, with the following exceptions:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. The major must include between 50-70 credit hours including required collateral courses in other departments. For students who wish to acquire two majors in two departments, the departments will be asked to make some accommodation for the students.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. In addition to the College of Arts and Sciences distribution requirements, the bachelor of science degree requires students to complete 60 semester hours in the natural and mathematical sciences. (See scientific base information under College General Education Requirements.)</p>				<p class="title-2">Areas of Study for the Major</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students are advised to choose a major before the end of the sophomore year to avoid extending the period of time necessary to complete the degree. By gaining a deeper knowledge of one field, the student will further his or her general liberal education, prepare for a career in his or her specialization, and possibly advance to graduate work or a professional program. It is sometimes possible, through careful planning, for students to complete more than one undergraduate major. Students should consult their advisers about this possibility. The student who majors in more than one field will be assigned to an adviser in each field.</p>				<p class="basic-text">If a student receives a grade lower than C in a course in his or her chosen major, it will not count toward the major.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students must complete at least 1/2 of the course work in their chosen major field in residence including 6 hours above 299, regardless of the number of hours transferred.</p>				<p class="title-2">Areas of Study</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College of Arts and Sciences offers study toward the major and minor in many areas. </p>				<p class="basic-text">A summary of the major areas of study for degrees offered by the College of Arts and Sciences includes:</p>				<p class="title-3">Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science</p>				<p class="list">Actuarial Science</p>				<p class="list">Anthropology </p>				<p class="list">Biological Chemistry <span class="list-ital">(BS only)</span></p>				<p class="list">Biological Sciences</p>				<p class="list">Chemistry </p>				<p class="list">Classical Languages </p>				<p class="list">Classics &amp; Religious Studies</p>				<p class="list">Communication Studies</p>				<p class="list">Computer Science </p>				<p class="list">Economics </p>				<p class="list">English</p>				<p class="list">Environmental Studies</p>				<p class="list">Ethnic Studies</p>				<p class="list">European Studies</p>				<p class="list">Film Studies</p>				<p class="list">French</p>				<p class="list">Geography</p>				<p class="list">Geology</p>				<p class="list">German</p>				<p class="list">Great Plains Studies</p>				<p class="list">History</p>				<p class="list">Individualized Program of Studies</p>				<p class="list">International Studies</p>				<p class="list">Latin American Studies</p>				<p class="list">Mathematics</p>				<p class="list">Medieval and Renaissance Studies</p>				<p class="list">Meteorology-Climatology <span class="list-ital">(BS only)</span></p>				<p class="list">Philosophy</p>				<p class="list">Physics</p>				<p class="list">Plant Biology</p>				<p class="list">Political Science</p>				<p class="list">Psychology</p>				<p class="list">Russian</p>				<p class="list">Sociology</p>				<p class="list">Spanish</p>				<p class="list">Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology</p>				<p class="list">University Studies</p>				<p class="list">Women’s and Gender Studies</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">MINORS &amp; AREAS OF SPECIALIZATIONS OFFERED</p>				<p class="title-1">The Minor</p>				<p class="basic-text">The requirement of minors is variable within the College and depends upon the student’s major department. Some departments require either one or two minors, and other departments require none. Two minor plans are available.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A.</span> Students must complete at least 6 hours of course work in a Plan A minor in residence regardless of the number of hours transferred.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan B.</span> Plan B minors consist of either two minors which are completed with fewer hours in each subject than required for a single Plan A minor or two majors and one Plan B minor. Hour requirements for individual Plan B minors are stated in each department’s or program’s listings.</p>				<p class="title-2">Minors in Other Colleges</p>				<p class="basic-text">A student with a major leading to a bachelor of science or bachelor of arts degree in the College of Arts and Sciences who wants to obtain a minor in another college should use the following procedure in making his/her request:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. In consultation with the student’s major adviser, prepare the list of courses required for the other college’s minor as indicated in the bulletin.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Submit the College-Degree-Major-Adviser Change form to the College of Arts and Sciences Advising Center prior to the deadline for submitting the application for graduation.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph">Students who have questions related to the minor after it is declared should consult an adviser in the college through which it is offered. The minor will be recorded on the student’s transcript.</p>				<p class="title-2">Minors Offered by Arts and Sciences </p>				<p class="list">Actuarial Science</p>				<p class="list">Aerospace Studies</p>				<p class="list">African American Studies</p>				<p class="list">African Studies</p>				<p class="list">Anthropology</p>				<p class="list">Archaeology Archeology</p>				<p class="list">Asian Studies</p>				<p class="list">Biological Chemistry</p>				<p class="list">Biological Sciences</p>				<p class="list">Chemistry</p>				<p class="list">Chicano Studies</p>				<p class="list">Classical Languages</p>				<p class="list">Classics</p>				<p class="list">Communication Studies</p>				<p class="list">Community and Regional Planning</p>				<p class="list">Computer Science</p>				<p class="list">Conflict and Conflict Resolution</p>				<p class="list">Czech</p>				<p class="list">Economics</p>				<p class="list">English</p>				<p class="list">Environmental Studies</p>				<p class="list">Ethnic Studies</p>				<p class="list">European Studies</p>				<p class="list">Film Studies</p>				<p class="list">French</p>				<p class="list">Geography</p>				<p class="list">Geology</p>				<p class="list">German</p>				<p class="list">Great Plains Studies</p>				<p class="list">Greek</p>				<p class="list">History</p>				<p class="list">Human Rights &amp; Human Diversity</p>				<p class="list">Humanities in Medicine</p>				<p class="list">Individualized Program of Studies</p>				<p class="list">International Studies</p>				<p class="list">Japanese</p>				<p class="list">Judaic Studies</p>				<p class="list">Latin</p>				<p class="list">Latin American Studies</p>				<p class="list">Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer/Sexuality Studies</p>				<p class="list">Mathematics</p>				<p class="list">Medieval and Renaissance Studies</p>				<p class="list">Meteorology-Climatology</p>				<p class="list">Native American Studies</p>				<p class="list">Philosophy</p>				<p class="list">Physics</p>				<p class="list">Plant Biology</p>				<p class="list">Political Science</p>				<p class="list">Psychology</p>				<p class="list">Public Policy Analysis and Evaluation <span class="list-ital">(Certificate)</span></p>				<p class="list">Religious Studies</p>				<p class="list">Russian</p>				<p class="list">Sociology</p>				<p class="list">Spanish</p>				<p class="list">Statistics</p>				<p class="list">Textiles, Clothing and Design</p>				<p class="list">University Studies</p>				<p class="list">Women’s and Gender Studies</p>				<p class="title-2">Pre-Health, Pre-Law, and Combined Degree Programs</p>				<p class="list">Pre-Chiropractic</p>				<p class="list">Pre-Clinical Laboratory Science</p>				<p class="list">Pre-Clinical Perfusion Science</p>				<p class="list">Pre-Cytotechnology</p>				<p class="list">Pre-Dental Hygiene</p>				<p class="list">Pre-Dentistry</p>				<p class="list">Pre-Law</p>				<p class="list">Pre-Medicine</p>				<p class="list">Pre-Mortuary Science</p>				<p class="list">Pre-Nursing</p>				<p class="list">Pre-Occupational Therapy</p>				<p class="list">Pre-Optometry</p>				<p class="list">Pre-Pharmacy</p>				<p class="list">Pre-Physical Therapy</p>				<p class="list">Pre-Physician Assistant</p>				<p class="list">Pre-Radiation Science Technology</p>				<p class="list">Pre-Veterinary Science</p>				<p class="content-box-m-p">OTHER</p>				<p class="title-1">Affiliated Academic Centers, Facilities, Programs and Publications</p>				<p class="basic-text">For more information on the following, see http://ascweb.unl.edu/units.html.</p>				<p class="list">ANDRILL Science Management Office (SMO)</p>				<p class="list">Atomic, Molecular, Optical, and Plasma Physics Laboratory</p>				<p class="list">Behlen Observatory</p>				<p class="list">Bureau of Sociological Research</p>				<p class="list">Cedar Point Biological Station</p>				<p class="list">Center for Biotechnology</p>				<p class="list">Center for Environmental Health and Toxicology</p>				<p class="list">Center for Great Plains Studies</p>				<p class="list">Center for Plant Science Innovation</p>				<p class="list">Center for Science, Mathematics and Computer Education</p>				<p class="list">Center on Children, Families, and the Law</p>				<p class="list">Harris Center for Judaic Studies</p>				<p class="list">Human Rights and Human Diversity Initiative</p>				<p class="list">Institute for Ethnic Studies</p>				<p class="list">Intensive English Program</p>				<p class="list">International Studies</p>				<p class="list">Law/Psychology</p>				<p class="list">Materials Research Science and Engineering Center</p>				<p class="list">Nebraska Center for Mass Spectrometry</p>				<p class="list">Nebraska Center for Materials and Nanoscience</p>				<p class="list">Nebraska Center for Virology</p>				<p class="list">Nineteenth Century Studies Program</p>				<p class="list">Prairie Schooner</p>				<p class="list">Psychological Consultation Center</p>				<p class="list">Raikes School of Computer Science and Management</p>				<p class="list">Survey Research and Methodology</p>				<p class="list">Water Center</p>				<p class="list">Women’s and Gender Studies</p>				<p class="end">###</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>