<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>CASNR_College_Page</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="casnr-college-page">			<div class="story">				<p class="college-name">College of Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources</p>				<p class="faculty-list">http://casnr.unl.edu</p>				<p class="faculty-list">Steven S. Waller, Ph.D., Dean and Professor of Agronomy</p>				<p class="faculty-list">David K. Hardin, D.V.M., Associate Dean and Professor of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences</p>				<p class="faculty-list">Dann E. Husmann, Ph.D., Associate Dean and Professor of Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication</p>				<p class="faculty-list">John P. Markwell, Ph.D., Associate Dean and Professor of Biochemistry</p>				<p class="faculty-list">Jack L. Schinstock, Ph.D., Associate Dean and Professor of Biological Systems Engineering</p>				<p class="content-box-m-p">ADMISSION</p>				<p class="title-1">College Admission</p>				<p class="basic-text"> Requirements for admission into the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources (CASNR) are consistent with general University admission requirements (one unit equals one high school year): 4 units of English, 4 units of mathematics, 3 units of natural sciences, 3 units of social studies, and 2 units of foreign language. Students must also meet performance requirements (ACT composite of 20 or higher OR combined SAT score of 950 or higher OR rank in the top one-half of graduating class; transfer students must have a 2.0 (on a 4.0 scale) cumulative grade point average and 2.0 on most recent term of attendance.</p>				<p class="title-1">Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies </p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who are admitted to CASNR with core course deficiencies, must remove these deficiencies within the first 30 credit hours at UNL, or within the first calendar year at UNL, whichever takes longer, excluding foreign languages. Students have up to 60 credit hours to remove foreign language deficiencies. College-level course work taken to remove deficiencies may be used to meet degree requirements in CASNR.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Deficiencies in the required entrance subjects can be removed by completion of specified courses in the University or by correspondence.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Office of Admissions, Alexander Building (east entrance), City Campus, provides information to new students on how deficiencies can be removed. </p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADVISING</p>				<p class="title-1">Academic Advising</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Undergraduate Advising:</span> Dann E. Husmann</p>				<p class="basic-text">Advising activities are coordinated by the Associate Dean for Student Affairs in the CASNR Dean’s Office. Each student in the College is assigned a faculty or professional adviser to assist in career planning, implementing, and completing academic programs. Assignments are made so that students will be working with an adviser who shares their academic interest. Students are encouraged to visit with their faculty or professional adviser about their career interests and development opportunities. Students may change their college, degree, and/or adviser. Such changes must be initiated in 103 Agricultural Hall.</p>				<p class="title-1">Student Responsibility</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students are ultimately responsible for fulfilling all the requirements of the curriculum in which they are enrolled. Students are also responsible for initiating advising contacts and preparing for advising sessions. The mentoring relationship between academic advisers and students is confidential and is strengthened by advisers’ listening with empathy. </p>				<p class="basic-text">Students are expected to take responsibility for successful university experiences and effective advising sessions by:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Participating in New Student Enrollment and priority registration programs;</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Scheduling appointments with advisers well in advance of priority registration and at other times as needed;</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Identifying class choices from requirements of the selected program;</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Identifying questions to address in advising sessions;</p>				<p class="numbered-list">5. Informing advisers of any special needs, deficiencies or barriers that might affect academic success;</p>				<p class="numbered-list">6. Following academic policies and procedures and meeting academic calendar deadlines (e.g. registration, fee payment, degree audit, filing for degree, etc.);</p>				<p class="numbered-list">7. Knowing and completing degree or program requirements;</p>				<p class="numbered-list">8. Monitoring their progress toward meeting degree requirements by maintaining a copy of their academic records and seeking assistance to resolve any errors or questions; </p>				<p class="numbered-list">9. Acting on recommendations to seek assistance from the various student support services provided by the University; and</p>				<p class="numbered-list">10. Achieving requirements for BS candidacy prior to senior year.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</p>				<p class="title-1">Academic Load</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students need to be enrolled for 12 UNL credit hours to be considered full-time students.</p>				<p class="title-1">Course Exclusions &amp; Restrictions</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Not more than 12 hours of independent study.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Not more than 24 hours of Pass/No Pass grade option.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Not more than 66 hours from two-year colleges.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Not more than 95 hours from other four-year institutions.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Not more than 6 hours of non-UNL courses can be counted among the last 36 hours earned.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">No credit toward the BS degree is allowed for MATH 100A.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">No more than 10 semester hours of below C grades are transferable from colleges outside the NU system. Grades below C can only be applied to free electives.</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-1">Credit Rules</p>				<p class="basic-text">Some currently-enrolled students, through outside study or relevant experience, may feel prepared to demonstrate that they have attained the knowledge and/or skills required to pass a particular UNL course. As an alternative to enrolling in the course, such students may elect to take a proficiency exam which tests for mastery of the course material. If a student scores satisfactorily on the examination, the student may be awarded credit for the course. Students can obtain detailed information from the Dean’s Office, 103 Agricultural Hall.</p>				<p class="title-1">Dual Degrees</p>				<p class="title-2">Dual Degrees from the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in CASNR may earn a bachelor of science degree in more than one program. They must complete all requirements for both programs.</p>				<p class="title-2">Dual Degrees from CASNR and Other UNL Colleges</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in other colleges may earn a bachelor of science from CASNR and a degree from another UNL college. Students will need to consult with both colleges to ensure all requirements are satisfied.</p>				<p class="title-1">Honors Program</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources encourages qualified students to participate in the University Honors Program which is a UNL-wide program. The College’s honors students pursue degree programs offered by the College while completing the required honors courses. </p>				<p class="basic-text">All University Honors Program students are expected to complete a mentored thesis project with a faculty member of their choosing. Students should enroll in AGRI 299H in the spring semester of their sophomore year. As a part of AGRI 299H, students will identify a faculty thesis mentor and write a thesis proposal with their faculty thesis mentor. Because of the breadth of degrees, the program relies on faculty mentors within individual degree programs to determine the criteria for an undergraduate thesis in their area of endeavor. General guidance for mentors is provided as requested by Dr. Madhavan Soundararajan.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Agricultural Research Division supports a competitive grants program to assist the College’s Honors Program students in the pursuit of their mentored theses. Students may also seek support from UNL’s Undergraduate Creative Activities and Research Experience (UCARE) program.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph">For more information about the University Honors Program, contact:</p>				<p class="list-indent">Dr. Madhavan Soundararajan</p>				<p class="list-indent">University of Nebraska–Lincoln</p>				<p class="list-indent">N251 Beadle</p>				<p class="list-indent">PO Box 88664</p>				<p class="list-indent">Lincoln, NE 68588-0664</p>				<p class="title-1">Student Recognition</p>				<p class="basic-text">Each semester, students having 12 UNL semester-graded hours with a minimum grade point average of 3.75 or above are eligible for the Dean’s List.</p>				<p class="title-2">Degrees with Distinction</p>				<p class="basic-text">In recognition of outstanding academic excellence, CASNR recommends the bachelors degree With Distinction, With High Distinction, and With Highest Distinction. Recommendations are made by the CASNR Committee on Scholarship. To be eligible for consideration by the Committee, undergraduate students must complete 45 credit hours for a letter grade (excluding Pass/No Pass marks) at UNL prior to the semester in which they graduate and must have completed 60 such credit hours at UNL at the time they graduate. To determine which of the eligible candidates will be recommended for the honor, the Committee currently uses the cumulative grade point average as follows:</p>				<p class="basic-text">With Distinction 3.800-3.899 </p>				<p class="basic-text">With High Distinction 3.900-3.949</p>				<p class="basic-text">With Highest Distinction 3.950-4.000</p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span> An undergraduate thesis is required to graduate With Highest Distinction regardless of a student’s grade point average.</p>				<p class="title-1">International Study/Study Abroad</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College offers a variety of opportunities for students to enhance their international awareness. All students are required to demonstrate that they have a minimal international awareness, either through course work or experience. A minor in International Agriculture and Natural Resources can be designed for students who seek a broad understanding of the nature and role of agriculture and natural resources in the integrated world economy and the implications of world events for agriculture and natural resources. International study tours of one to three weeks in duration are also sponsored by CASNR to assist students in discovering different ways of thinking and acting as well as making them more informed global citizens. CASNR also promotes the Study Abroad program offered through the UNL Office of International Affairs which has opportunities of various lengths in numerous countries on all continents.</p>				<p class="basic-text">For financial assistance, the College offers the Robert and Beatrice Kleis Fund. One or more grants are awarded annually to undergraduate students in agriculture-related degree programs at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. These grants shall be used to subsidize expenses associated with an international study program for credit. For more information on international opportunities, contact Dr. Arlen Etling, 103 Agricultural Hall, the International Affairs Office, or refer to “Study Abroad and Exchange Programs” on page 20 of this bulletin.</p>				<p class="title-1">Senior Check/Degree Audit</p>				<p class="basic-text">UNL Registration and Records will identify CASNR students that have achieved senior status (89 credit hours or more) and inform the CASNR Dean’s Office.</p>				<p class="title-1">Student Standing/Classification</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Sophomore Standing.</span> For admission to sophomore standing, a student must have completed all of the College entrance requirements except foreign language, earned a minimum of 27 semester hours of credit, and attained a total grade point average of at least 2.0.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Junior Standing.</span> A student has junior standing after meeting the requirements for sophomore standing and completing 53 semester hours of credit.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Senior Standing.</span> A student has senior standing after meeting the requirements for junior standing and completing 89 semester hours of credit.</p>				<p class="title-1">Substitutions and Waivers</p>				<p class="basic-text">Requests for substitutions and waivers involving courses that fall within the basic four-year curriculum must be filed before the start of the fall semester for December graduates, before the start of the spring semester for May graduates and prior to the last day of classes of the spring semester for August graduates. Forms are available in 103 Agricultural Hall, from the student adviser, or on the Web site.</p>				<p class="content-box-m-p">ACE REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="basic-text">All students must fulfill the Achievement Centered Education (ACE) requirements. Information about the ACE program may be viewed at ace.unl.edu.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The minimum requirements of CASNR reflect the common core of courses that apply to students pursuing degrees in the college. Students should work with an adviser to satisfy ACE outcomes 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and 10 with the college requirements.</p>				<p class="content-box-m-p">COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="title-1">College General Education Requirements (those separate or related to ACE)</p>				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">College Integrative Course 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRI/NRES 103 Intro to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Mathematics and Statistics<span class="requirement-sec-1-italic"> (beyond college algebra)</span> 5</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span>MATH 102, 104, 106, 203, and STAT 218.</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> Proficiency at the college algebra level must be demonstrated either <br />by a placement exam or through course work. If MATH 103 is taken, only 2 cr hrs can be counted toward this requirement. Students must take MATH 203 prior to STAT 218 to receive UNL credit for both MATH 203 and STAT 218. Students who transfer STAT 218 credit to UNL will not receive UNL credit <br />for MATH 203.</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Communications 6</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Written Communication 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span>ENGL 150, 151, 254; JGEN 120, 200</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Communication and Interpersonal Skills electives 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span>ENGL 101, 150, 151, 252, 253, 254; ALEC 102; JGEN 120, 200, 300; COMM 109, 209, 212, 286</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Natural Sciences 8-9</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select two from the following three areas/courses:</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">CASNR Approved Life Sciences (4 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 105 Chemistry in Context I or CHEM 109 General Chemistry I <br />(4 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from: </span>(4-5 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-4">PHYS 141 Elementary General Physics (5 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-4">PHYS 151 Elements of Physics (4 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-4">PHYS 211 General Physics (4 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-4">MSYM 109 Physical Principles in Agriculture (4 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Economics, Humanities and Social Sciences 18</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 211 or ECON 212 or AECN 141 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Courses 12</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Select one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, and 9.</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Select one elective in this area 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Major Requirements and Electives 85</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Including Capstone Course 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Minimum Credit Hours Required for Graduation 125</p>				<p class="title-2">Foreign Languages/Language Requirement</p>				<p class="basic-text">Two units of a foreign language are required</p>				<p class="title-1">Minimum Hours Required for Graduation</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College grants the bachelor of science degree in programs associated with agricultural sciences and natural resources. Students working toward a degree must earn at least 125 semester hours of credit. A minimum cumulative grade point average of C (2.0 on a 4.0 scale) must be maintained throughout the course of studies and is required for graduation.</p>				<p class="title-1">Grade Rules </p>				<p class="title-2">Removal of C-, D and F Grades</p>				<p class="basic-text">Only the most recent letter grade received in a given course will be used in computing a student’s cumulative grade point average if the student has completed the course more than once and previously received a grade or grades below C in that course.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The previous grade (or grades) will not be used in computation of the cumulative grade point average, but it will remain a part of the academic record and will appear on any transcript.</p>				<p class="basic-text">A student can remove from his/her cumulative average a course grade of C-, D+, D, D- or F if the student repeats the same course at the University of Nebraska and receives a grade other than P (pass), I (incomplete), N (no pass), W (withdrew), or NR (no report). If a course is no longer being offered, it is not eligible for the revised grade point average computation process.</p>				<p class="basic-text">For complete procedures and regulations, see the Schedule of Classes and the Summer Sessions Bulletin.</p>				<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in CASNR may take any course offered on a Pass/No Pass basis within the 24-hour limitation established by the Faculty Senate. However, a department may specify that the Pass/No Pass status of its courses be limited to non-majors, or may choose to offer some courses for letter grades only.</p>				<p class="title-2">GPA Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">A minimum cumulative grade point average of C (2.0 on a 4.0 scale) must be maintained throughout the course of studies and is required for graduation.</p>				<p class="title-1">Transfer Credit Rules</p>				<p class="basic-text">Not more than 95 semester hours of credit from a four-year institution or another UNL college, can be applied toward programs in CASNR. A maximum of 66 hours may be transferred from a two-year college. Half of the credit needed for graduation can be earned through non-UNL courses, but such credit does not count toward residence; no more than 6 hours can be counted among the last 36 credit hours earned.</p>				<p class="basic-text">CASNR accepts no more than 10 semester hours of grades below C transferred from colleges outside the University of Nebraska system. Grades below C can only be applied to free electives.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Applicants must have a minimum cumulative grade point average of C (2.0 on a 4.0 scale) and at least a C average in the last semester of college enrollment at the student’s originating institution.</p>				<p class="title-1">Residency</p>				<p class="basic-text">At least 30 of the last 36 hours of credit in all but excepted programs must be registered for and completed in residence in the UNL or at least 90 hours total must be registered for and completed in residence at UNL.</p>				<p class="title-1">Extended Education and Independent Study Rules</p>				<p class="basic-text">There are many opportunities to earn college credit through the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Office of Extended Education and Outreach. Some of these credits may be applicable not only as elective credits, but also toward the fulfillment of the College’s education requirements. Half of the credit needed for graduation can be earned through non-resident courses, but such credit does not count toward residency.</p>				<p class="title-3">For further information, contact:</p>				<p class="basic-text">Office of Extended Education and Outreach</p>				<p class="basic-text">University of Nebraska–Lincoln</p>				<p class="basic-text">900 N 21st Street</p>				<p class="basic-text">Lincoln, NE 68588-8307</p>				<p class="basic-text">402-472-2175</p>				<p class="basic-text">http://extended.unl.edu/</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students wishing to take part in independent studies must obtain permission; complete and sign a contract form; and furnish copies of the contract to the instructor, adviser, departmental office, and the Dean’s Office. The contract should be completed before registration. Forms are available in 103 Agricultural Hall.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Independent study projects include research, literature review or extension of course work under supervision and evaluation of a departmental faculty member.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students may only count 12 hours of independent study toward their degrees and no more than 6 hours can be counted during their last 36 hours earned, excluding senior thesis, internships, and courses taught under an independent study number.</p>				<p class="title-1">Bulletin Rule</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students must follow the undergraduate bulletin in effect when they enroll in the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources or any subsequent bulletin published while the student is enrolled in the College, provided the bulletin they follow is no more than 10 years old at the time of graduation. Students must, however, meet the requirements from one bulletin only.</p>				<p class="title-1">Other College Degree Requirements</p>				<p class="title-2">Capstone Course Requirement</p>				<p class="basic-text">A capstone course is required for each CASNR degree program. A capstone course is defined as a course in which students are required to integrate diverse bodies of knowledge to solve a problem or formulate a policy of societal importance.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DEGREES &amp; MAJORS</p>				<p class="title-1">Degree Programs</p>				<p class="list">Agribusiness <span class="list-ital">(Offered jointly with College of Business Administration)</span></p>				<p class="list">Agricultural Economics</p>				<p class="list">Agricultural Education</p>				<p class="list">Agricultural Journalism</p>				<p class="list">Agronomy</p>				<p class="list">Animal Science</p>				<p class="list">Applied Science</p>				<p class="list">Biochemistry <span class="list-ital">(Offered jointly with the College of Arts and Sciences)</span></p>				<p class="list">Environmental Restoration Science</p>				<p class="list">Environmental Studies <span class="list-ital">(Offered jointly with the College of Arts and Sciences)</span></p>				<p class="list">Fisheries and Wildlife</p>				<p class="list">Food Science and Technology</p>				<p class="list">Food Technology for Companion Animals</p>				<p class="list">Forensic Science</p>				<p class="list">Grassland Ecology and Management</p>				<p class="list">Grazing Livestock Systems</p>				<p class="list">Horticulture</p>				<p class="list">Hospitality, Restaurant &amp; Tourism Management <span class="list-ital">(Offered jointly with the College of Education and Human Sciences)</span></p>				<p class="list">Insect Science</p>				<p class="list">Mechanized Systems Management</p>				<p class="list">Natural Resource and Environmental Economics</p>				<p class="list">Plant Biology<span class="list-ital"> (Offered jointly with the College of Arts and Sciences)</span></p>				<p class="list">Plant Protection Sciences</p>				<p class="list">PGA Golf Management</p>				<p class="list">Turfgrass and Landscape Management</p>				<p class="list">Veterinary Science</p>				<p class="list">Veterinary Technology <span class="list-ital">(Offered jointly with the Nebraska College of Technical Agriculture)</span></p>				<p class="list">Water Science</p>				<p class="title-2">Multiple Degrees</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students may complete requirements for more than one degree by declaring, prior to the last 30 hours of study, a dual degree. This is made possible through a common core required for all CASNR students. Students may consider these options with their faculty advisers.</p>				<p class="basic-text">An adviser is assigned for each additional degree declared. Appropriate forms must be processed in 103 Agricultural Hall.</p>				<p class="title-2">Pre-Professional Programs</p>				<p class="list">Integrated Science</p>				<p class="list">Preforestry</p>				<p class="list">Prelaw</p>				<p class="list">Preveterinary Medicine</p>				<p class="title-2">Related Degree Programs</p>				<p class="list">Agricultural Engineering<span class="list-ital"> (Offered jointly with the College of Engineering)</span></p>				<p class="list">Biological Systems Engineering <span class="list-ital">(Offered jointly with the College of Engineering)</span></p>				<p class="list">Landscape Architecture <span class="list-ital">(Offered jointly with the College of Architecture)</span></p>				<p class="list">Statistics<span class="list-ital"> (Offered jointly with the College of Arts and Sciences)</span></p>				<p class="title-2">Professional Programs</p>				<p class="list">Doctor of Plant Health</p>				<p class="list">Veterinary Medicine</p>				<p class="title-2">Certificate Programs</p>				<p class="list">Contact John Markwell in the CASNR Deans’ Office</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">GRADUATE STUDENT INFORMATION</p>				<p class="basic-text">Graduate work leading to the masters degree is offered in the departments of Agricultural Economics; Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication; Agronomy and Horticulture; Animal Science; Biochemistry; Biological Systems Engineering; Entomology; Food Science and Technology; Plant Pathology; Statistics; School of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences; School of Natural Resources; the Center for Biological Chemistry; and in the interdepartmental area of nutrition. A master of applied science degree is also available.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Graduate work leading to the doctor of philosophy degree is offered by the departments of Agricultural Economics; Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication (offered jointly with the College of Education and Human Sciences); School of Natural Resources (agricultural meteorology and forestry, fisheries and wildlife); Agronomy and Horticulture; Animal Science; Biological Systems Engineering/Agricultural Engineering; Entomology; Food Science and Technology; Plant Pathology (offered jointly with the School of Biological Sciences); Statistics; Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences; the Center for Biological Chemistry (offered jointly with the College of Arts and Sciences); and in the interdepartmental area of nutrition.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Further information appears in the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">MINORS &amp; AREAS OF SPECIALIZATIONS OFFERED </p>				<p class="basic-text">Minors in the College will consist of 18 hours in the minor area of study, including at least six hours at the 300 and/or 400 level. Alternatively, 12 hours of 300- and/or 400-level courses will meet the requirement. At the discretion of the department(s) responsible for the minor, up to three hours of independent study may be counted toward the minor. Departments may specify additional requirements for their minor(s).</p>				<p class="title-3">Minors offered through CASNR: </p>				<p class="list">Agribusiness </p>				<p class="list">Agricultural Economics </p>				<p class="list">Agronomy </p>				<p class="list">Animal Science </p>				<p class="list">Applied Science</p>				<p class="list">Biochemistry </p>				<p class="list">Community Economics and Social Dynamics </p>				<p class="list">Cooperative Extension</p>				<p class="list">Energy Science</p>				<p class="list">Environmental Communications</p>				<p class="list">Environmental Education (ALEC)</p>				<p class="list">Environmental Studies</p>				<p class="list">Food Science and Technology</p>				<p class="list">Forensic Science </p>				<p class="list">Fisheries and Wildlife</p>				<p class="list">Grassland Ecology &amp; Management</p>				<p class="list">Grazing Livestock Systems</p>				<p class="list">Horticulture </p>				<p class="list">Insect Science </p>				<p class="list">Integrated Pest Management</p>				<p class="list">International Agriculture and Natural Resources </p>				<p class="list">Landscape Architecture</p>				<p class="list">Leadership and Communication</p>				<p class="list">Mechanized Systems Management</p>				<p class="list">Natural Resource &amp; Environmental Economics</p>				<p class="list">Soil Science</p>				<p class="list">Turfgrass and Landscape Management</p>				<p class="list">Veterinary Science</p>				<p class="list">Water Science </p>				<p class="title-3">Filing for a Minor</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students wishing to declare a minor, must file a new C-D-M-A (College-Degree-Major-Adviser) form with the Dean’s Office prior to filing for graduation if the minor is exactly the same as that published in the student’s Undergraduate Bulletin. If there are any variations from the published minor, then the student must file the “Application for a Minor” form with the Dean’s Office.</p>				<p class="title-3">Minors in Other Colleges</p>				<p class="basic-text">A student with a degree leading to a bachelor of science degree who wants to obtain a minor in a department in the College of Arts and Sciences should use the following procedure in making his/her request:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. In consultation with the adviser, prepare the list of courses required for either Plan A or Plan B in the chosen minor as indicated in the College of Arts and Sciences section of this bulletin. Plan A indicates a single minor; Plan B indicates two minors with fewer hours in each subject than the number required for a single minor.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Submit the C-D-M-A form for the minor to the CASNR Dean’s Office prior to the deadline for submitting the application for graduation.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who have questions related to the minor after it is declared should consult an adviser in the college through which it is offered. The minor will be recorded on the student’s transcript.</p>				<p class="title-1">Energy Science Minor</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator:</span> Assistant Professor Adam Liska, 246 Chase Hall</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Conley, Hudgins, Schinstock, Verma, Walters, Yoder</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Web site:</span> http://energysciences.unl.edu</p>				<p class="basic-text">The energy science minor is designed to offer an educational component to University of Nebraska students that will prepare them with the knowledge, expertise, and background to successfully compete for positions with companies that are producing or developing renewable energy sources. The minor is for students who desire a broad understanding of energy related issues and an in-depth knowledge of energy in one or more of four elective thematic areas as well as for those seeking employment in agriculture, business/industry, communication, transportation, and government plus domestic use.</p>				<p class="title-2">Minor Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">A minor in energy science (ENSC) will include a minimum of 18 credit hours of energy-related courses including three core courses (ENSC 110 Energy in Perspective, ENSC 220 Introduction to Energy Systems, and ENSC 230 Energy and the Environment: Economics and Policy). The remaining energy-related courses must come from one or more of the four elective thematic tracks (Energy and Natural Resources; Plant and Animal Bioenergy; Energy Engineering; and Energy Economics, Policy, and Human Dimensions) or be approved by the student’s academic adviser and the minor coordinator. Additionally, a 1-credit-hour Energy Seminar (AGRI 389) will be required, and an optional 1-credit-hour Nebraska Energy Study Tour (AGRI 311) and an optional 1-credit-hour Independent Energy Study (AGRI 496) will be offered. Completing each of the 1-credit-hour courses will allow a student to use those 3 credit hours in place of a course from one of the four thematic areas. At least 6 credit hours must be at the 300 or 400 level and up to 3 hours of energy-related independent study course work may be included.</p>				<p class="title-2">Courses of Instruction (ENSC)</p>				<p class="basic-text">Courses suitable for automatic inclusion in one of the four elective thematic areas have been identified and the list can be obtained from the minor coordinator or any of the minor advisers listed above. Other courses may be included with prior approval of the minor coordinator.</p>				<p class="basic-text">A student in consultation with the academic adviser and a minor adviser (chosen from those above) prepares a list of courses on the CASNR Application for Minor form, obtains the appropriate signatures and submits the minor form to the minor coordinator prior to deadline for submitting the application for graduation. Upon approval, the minor program will be forwarded to the director of Registration and Records, with a copy supplied to the student’s major college. The minor will be recorded on the student’s transcript upon graduation.</p>				<p class="title-1">International Agriculture and Natural Resources Minor</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator:</span> Professor Arlen Etling, 103 Agricultural Hall</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Brink, Husmann, Francis, Mason, Schinstock, Peterson, Weller, Fulginiti</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor:</span> Powell</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Ellis, Thomas, Yiannaka</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice:</span> Hardin</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Undergraduate Adviser:</span> Swartz</p>				<p class="basic-text">The International Agriculture and Natural Resources minor is designed for students who seek a broad understanding of the nature and role of agriculture and natural resources in the integrated world economy and of the implications of world events for agriculture and natural resources in both the United States and abroad. The minor adds a global perspective to professional preparation. It is for students who desire a broad understanding of international trade and development issues as well as for those seeking employment in business firms or government agencies with international operations or interests.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students typically build their minor program from courses organized around three areas: 1) a group of international courses in CASNR; 2) complimentary international courses offered in arts and sciences, and business administration; and 3) optional but highly recommended modern language instruction or experience as a base for building international communications skills. Two minor plans are available. One plan requires 12 credits in courses at or above the 300 level while the other plan requires 18 credits, including a minimum of 6 credits in courses at or above the 300 level.</p>				<p class="title-3">12-Credit-Hour Plan</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Overall 12 credits in approved courses* at or above the 300 level</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Minimum 3 credits in CASNR courses other than Independent Study, AGRI 310 or NRES 315</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 6 credits from any one department or program</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 6 credits of modern languages at or above the 200 level</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 3 credits of Independent Study and AGRI 310 or NRES 315 combined</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-3">18-Credit-Hour Plan</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Overall 18 credits in approved courses*</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Minimum 6 credits in CASNR courses</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Minimum 6 credits in courses at or above the 300 level</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 9 credits from any one department or program</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 6 credits of modern languages at or above the 200 level</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 3 credits of Independent Study</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Maximum 3 credits of AGRI 310 or NRES 315 </li>				</ul>				<p class="basic-text">A student in consultation with the academic adviser and a minor adviser (chosen from those above) prepares a list of courses on the CASNR Application for Minor form, obtains the appropriate signatures and submits the minor form to the minor coordinator prior to deadline for submitting the application for graduation. While students may apply during their senior year, planning for the minor and application are recommended earlier in order to get maximum benefit from the minor.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Upon approval, the minor program will be forwarded to the director of Registration and Records, with a copy supplied to the student’s college. The minor will be recorded on the student’s transcript upon graduation. Students interested in pursuing an International Agriculture and Natural Resources minor should contact the minor coordinator or the CASNR Dean’s Office, 103 Agricultural Hall.</p>				<p class="title-1">Pre-Professional Programs</p>				<p class="title-2">Integrated Science Program</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator:</span> Associate Dean Dann Husmann, 103 Agricultural Hall</p>				<p class="basic-text">Many students are unsure of which degree program to choose when entering the university. In fact, over half of all students entering UNL change their degree program at least once. The following program is available for students not yet ready to make the decision.</p>				<p class="title-3">Integrated Science</p>				<p class="basic-text">The courses listed below compose a nondegree program entitled Integrated Science. The program is designed for students who are interested in a bachelor of science degree in the applied life sciences, agricultural sciences, natural resource sciences, or social sciences offered in the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, but are uncertain about a specific degree program. Such students will receive individualized advising and mentoring from a faculty member and be encouraged to participate in clubs and other pre-professional activities to help them decide which career path is right for them.</p>				<p class="basic-text">This list of suggested courses for the first semester should provide the student maximum flexibility while ensuring that courses contribute to any of the degree programs within the College as well as most programs in other colleges. During the first semester, students should contact Associate Dean Dann Husmann to identify an appropriate adviser(s) in a degree program(s) of their area of interest to plan appropriate courses for subsequent semesters. Students may be in the program for two years (62 credit hours). Students may declare a degree program at any time, but must declare a degree program at the completion of 62 hours.</p>				<p class="requirement-hours">Semester 1 Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGL 150 or ENGL 151 or JOUR 200 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">NRES/AGRI 103 Intro to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab 4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 101, 102, 104 or 106 2-5</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Comprehensive elective 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>				<p class="title-3">Options:</p>				<p class="list">If interested in Natural Resources and Environmental Science: </p>				<p class="list-indent">NRES 101 Natural Resources Orientation (1 cr)</p>				<p class="list">If interested in Economics: </p>				<p class="list-indent">AECN 141 for humanities or social science</p>				<p class="list">If interested in physical sciences: </p>				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 141, 211/221 or MSYM 109 for BIOS 101/101L</p>				<p class="list">If math placement exam MATH 106: </p>				<p class="list-indent">Substitute STAT 218 (3 cr)</p>				<p class="basic-text">To learn about a particular degree program substitute humanities or social science with an entry-level course in one of the College disciplines.</p>				<p class="title-2">Natural Resources Program</p>				<p class="basic-text">Natural Resources programs in CASNR emphasize an interdisciplinary approach to undergraduate and graduate education while providing students with a strong grounding in the program of their choice. The School of Natural Resources (SNR) is the administrative home to the natural resources programs: Environmental Restoration Science, Environmental Studies (Applied Climate Science emphasis and Natural Resources emphasis), Fisheries and Wildlife, Grassland Ecology and Management, Preforestry, and Water Science. The SNR is comprised of faculty from units within the Institute of Agriculture and Natural Resources (IANR), the College of Arts and Sciences, and other University colleges who focus on many critical natural resources and environmental issues.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The core requirements apply to every natural resources program leading to a bachelor of science degree and reflect the philosophy that there is a common foundation of knowledge essential for professionals in natural resource sciences. The specific requirements for each program are listed under each program description. </p>				<p class="basic-text">Courses of instruction in the natural resources programs provide students with the tools to describe the characteristics of natural resource systems which include the atmosphere, hydrosphere, geosphere and biosphere. In addition, graduates of these programs are expected to be able to understand the interactions among natural resource systems and to evaluate the impacts of humans as stewards and managers of these systems. Along with this technical expertise, each student will develop problem solving and communications skills which will enable them to take their place as a professional in a diversity of natural resources careers.</p>				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Core Requirements 69</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Natural Resources 21-23</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRI 103/NRES 103 Intro to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Senior Capstone Course 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Geographic Information Science Course (NRES 312, NRES 412, or NRES 418) 3-4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">NRES 220 Principles of Ecology 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">NRES 323 Natural Resources Policy 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Earth Science Course (GEOL 100, GEOL 101, GEOL 106; METR 200; NRES 108, NRES 208; SOIL 153; WATS 281) 3-4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Natural Resources &amp; Environmental Economics I or II (NREE 265, NREE 465) 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Mathematics and Statistics <span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">(beyond college algebra) (ACE 3)</span> 5</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> MATH 102, MATH 103, MATH 104, MATH 106, and STAT 218</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="requirement-ital"> Proficiency at the college algebra level must be demonstrated either by a placement exam or through course work. If MATH 103 is taken, only 2 cr hrs can be counted toward this requirement.</span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Natural Sciences<span class="requirement-sec-1-italic"> (ACE 4)</span> 16-17</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 101 &amp; 101L General Biology &amp; Lab or BIOS 102 Cell Structure &amp; </p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Function or AGRO 131 &amp; 132 Plant Science &amp; Lab 4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CASNR approved life sciences (other than BIOS 220) 4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 105 Chemistry in Context I or CHEM 109 General Chemistry I 4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span></p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHYS 141 Elementary General Physics I (5 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHYS 151 Elements of Physics (4 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHYS 211 General Physics I (4 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-3">MSYM 109 Physical Principles in Agriculture (4 cr)</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Communication 9</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Written Communication<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 1)</span> 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Oral Communication <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span> 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Communication and Interpersonal Skills electives 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Economics, Humanities and Social Sciences 18</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 211 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ECON 212 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> AECN 141<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 6)</span> 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Select one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8 and 9 12</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Select one elective in this area 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Specific Major Requirements and Electives<span class="requirement-sec-1-italic"> (including ACE 10)</span> 56</p>				<p class="title-3">Scholarships</p>				<p class="basic-text">The School of Natural Resources annually awards scholarships to freshmen and upperclassmen worth more than $25,000. Scholarship awards are made possible through generous gifts of alumni, local and state organizations and private donors. </p>				<p class="basic-text">Most SNR scholarships are based on academic performance and do not require an application. A number of scholarships are available. For more information on these scholarships contact the Natural Resources advising coordinator at 402/472-0636 or visit http://snr.unl.edu. </p>				<p class="title-3">Academic Advising</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students are assigned a faculty adviser after admission into their programs. The adviser serves as a resource regarding the degree, academic plans and progress, and career options. Students are encouraged to regularly consult with their adviser, especially before registering for classes. The natural resources advising coordinator assist the faculty advisers with student consultations, is a resource for internship and employment opportunities, and will assist students in reviewing their academic records and course options.</p>				<p class="title-2">Preforestry</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator: Professor James R. Brandle,</span> School of Natural Resources, 407 Hardin Hall</p>				<p class="basic-text">Forestry deals with the development and use of forests and related lands for a variety of uses– wood, water, wildlife, forage, recreation, and aesthetics. Multiple use is the foundation upon which management of our national forests is based; foresters today, through their forest management programs, are expected to provide a broad array of benefits to meet public demands. Students graduating from forestry programs find employment with federal, state, and local governments, and with private industry.</p>				<p class="basic-text">CASNR offers a two-year preforestry program, but does not offer a four-year forestry degree. Students must transfer at the end of their freshman or sophomore year. Graduate training in forestry is offered by the School of Natural Resources.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The preforestry curriculum consists of 60-70 hours selected from the courses listed below. Course selection is based on a student’s background and career goals. A program of study will be developed by the student and the adviser that involves one or two years at the University of Nebraska before transferring to the University of Missouri or another accredited forestry school. If a student desires to enter the University of Nebraska and later transfer to a forestry school other than the University of Missouri, the student should obtain information about the school’s entrance requirements and curriculum as early as possible to avoid unnecessary loss of credit.</p>				<p class="basic-text">An agreement with the University of Missouri allows Nebraska residents with the proper scholastic qualifications to enter that institution without paying out-of-state fees. Under this program a student may enter the University of Missouri directly from high school or transfer after one or two years at the University of Nebraska. Students interested in pursuing a preforestry program should select courses from the list below:</p>				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">STAT 218 Intro to Statistics 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab 4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 109 General Botany 4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 112 Intro to Zoology 4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 General Chemistry I &amp; II 8</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">COMM 109 or COMM 209 Public Speaking 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 211 or ECON 212 Principles of Economics 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGL 150 or ENGL 151 or ENGL 254 Composition 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">GEOL 101 Physical Geology 4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JGEN 200 Technical Communication 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 104 Calculus for Managerial &amp; Social Sciences (3 cr) </p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MATH 106 Analytical Geometry &amp; Calculus I (5 cr) 3-5</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">NRES 101 Natural Resources Orientation 1</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">NRES/AGRI 103 Intro to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS/ASTR 151 Elements of Physics 4</p>				<p class="requirement-sec-2">SOIL 153 Intro to Soil Science 4</p>				<p class="title-2">PreLaw</p>				<p class="basic-text">Law schools prefer students with broad academic backgrounds. Accordingly, there is no “prelaw” designation. Study toward a bachelor of science degree is excellent prelaw curriculum. There are no particular degree programs or courses students are advised to take to enhance their chances of admission to law school. Students should choose programs and courses that interest them. However, students should take many courses that require writing and complex readings. Students, especially those uncertain about law school, may want to take some courses that focus on law and the courts. While these courses will not enhance chances of admission, they will provide information about the legal system and the legal profession.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Prospective applicants are advised to take the Law School Admission Test (LSAT) during the summer before their last year or the fall of their last year. Information and application materials are available from the Career Services. The Official Guide to US Law Schools, available from the LSAT organization, contains material about the legal profession, the law school experience, the application process, and the individualized information on all American law schools approved by the American Bar Association.</p>				<p class="basic-text">CASNR students contemplating application to law school may contact Professor David Aiken, adviser in the Department of Agricultural Economics, 103 Filley Hall.</p>				<p class="title-2">Veterinary Medicine Pre-Professional Program</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Head: Professor David Hardin,</span> Department of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences, 120C Vet Basic Sciences</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Interim Head:</span> Professor Sheila Scheideler, Department of Animal Science, C203 Animal Sciences</p>				<p class="basic-text">Individuals wishing to enter the four-year professional curriculum leading to the degree, doctor of veterinary medicine (DVM), must first complete two or more years of preveterinary general education. Courses taken during preprofessional education must satisfy the entrance prerequisites for the college of veterinary medicine of the person’s choice. At the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, it usually requires a minimum of three years to complete the preprofessional requirements, but students must declare an acceptable degree program at the conclusion of their sophomore year. Certain options in the veterinary science and veterinary technology degree programs meet the pre-veterinary requirements of colleges of veterinary medicine. 8 The student should discuss special variations and other colleges of interest with their academic adviser at the earliest possible date.</p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">The Preveterinary Program IS NOT a degree-granting program. </span>Completion of the preprofessional program alone in fulfilling the prerequisites for admission to a college or school of veterinary medicine does not result in the awarding of a degree from the University of Nebraska. Students are to select an appropriate field within which to work toward a college degree while concurrently working toward completion of preprofessional requirements. Students are encouraged to consider courses of study with a degree-granting program in veterinary science (biomedical science, microbiology options, or veterinary medicine options), veterinary technology, animal science, food science and technology, biochemistry or other fields compatible with the preprofessional program that leads to a bachelor of science degree. Students can also complete preveterinary prerequisites with a degree program in wildlife or environmental studies, leading to a bachelor of science degree. It is also possible to pursue these preveterinary requirements in degree-granting programs outside the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, such as the College of Arts and Sciences.</p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Students are expected to designate an acceptable degree program by the end of their sophomore year and to work with an adviser in that field. </span>Additional advisory support relating to preprofessional requirements and admission policies is provided by advisers within the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, University of Nebraska–Lincoln.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The program utilizes an “Advising Plus” model which involves faculty from the Department of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences (Laura Hardin, Rodney Moxley, and Michael Carlson) and the Department of Animal Science (Dennis Brink and Thomas Burkey). Team advising will be utilized to expose students to all the opportunities in animal health and assist them in identifying the appropriate degree program.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students interested in veterinary medicine are encouraged to participate in the Pre-veterinary Club to learn about the exciting advancement and developments within the profession.</p>				<p class="basic-text">It is not recommended that preveterinary students take any courses on a Pass/No Pass basis (unless this is the only grading option for a given course, e.g. VBMS 101) because courses taken Pass/No Pass may not be accepted for preprofessional prerequisites. Letter grades are required to evaluate credentials of applicants for veterinary college admission.</p>				<p class="basic-text">See individual degree programs for specializations in those areas.</p>				<p class="end">###</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>