<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>College_Page_test-CEHS</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="college-page-test-cehs">			<div class="story">				<p class="college-name">College of Education and Human Sciences</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="content-box-h-1">Admission (Content Box Heading) (Major Page):</p>				<p class="section-1">College Admission </p>				<p class="section-2">General</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students accepted by the University must have an ACT of 20 or SAT of 950, or rank in the upper half of their high school graduating class, and have the following high school preparation to be eligible for admission to the College of Education and Human Sciences:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">four years of English that include intensive reading and writing experience; </li>					<li class="bullet-1">two years of one foreign language;</li>					<li class="bullet-1">four years of mathematics that include Algebra I, II, geometry and one year that builds on a knowledge of algebra;</li>					<li class="bullet-1">three years of natural sciences that include at least two years selected from biology, physics, chemistry, and earth science and one year of laboratory instruction;</li>					<li class="bullet-1">three years of social studies, that include at least one year of American and/or world history and one year of history, American government, and/or geography.</li>				</ul>				<p class="basic-text">To remain current, College of Education and Human Sciences students must enroll in, and complete, at least one UNL course that will apply toward degree requirements during a 12 month period.</p>				<p class="section-2">Transfer Students</p>				<p class="basic-text">Transfer students from universities or colleges outside of UNL and readmitted students seeking admission to the College of Education and Human Sciences must have an accumulated average of 2.0 on a 4.0 scale or above and no high school deficiencies. Students who do not meet these requirements must enroll as deciding students in the Division of General Studies or in another college. Once they have completed 12 graded hours at UNL with a minimum 2.0 grade point average, and have removed any high school deficiencies, UNL students may apply for admission to the College.</p>				<p class="section-2">International Students</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences welcomes undergraduate international students.</p>				<p class="basic-text">As a part of admission to the College, international students must present a TOEFL score of 550 or higher, and TSE score of 230 or higher. Students seeking teacher education and state certification must meet the same requirements as any other undergraduate students, including the Pre-Professional Skills Test or other basic skills test approved by the Nebraska Department of Education.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who have received a degree outside of the United States and are interested in teacher certification are required to have a transcript review completed by an approved agency not directly associated with the University of Nebraska. See the director of advising in the College Student Services Center in Henzlik 105 for details.</p>				<p class="section-2">Students Transferring from Another UNL College</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students transferring to the College of Education and Human Sciences from another University of Nebraska–Lincoln college or from the Division of General Studies must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0, be in good academic standing, and meet the freshman entrance requirements that exist at the time of their admission to the College of Education and Human Sciences. </p>				<p class="section-2">Readmitted Students</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who readmit following an absence of one year or more must meet all requirements in the undergraduate bulletin in effect at the time of readmission and enrollment. Students who transfer to another UNL college and later return to the College of Education and Human Sciences will be considered readmitted students.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who transfer out of a teacher education program, but who continue their certification program while seeking a degree in another UNL college, are exempt from this policy.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who left the College on probation or who were dismissed may seek readmission to the College after two semesters by applying to the UNL Admissions Office. Readmission is not assured. However, the admissions committee is receptive to giving students a second opportunity to be successful. The committee is interested in knowing what the student has done in the intervening period that would suggest the student will be successful when readmitted. Successfully completing correspondence courses and/or community college courses is an effective way to demonstrate one’s commitment to academic success.</p>				<p class="section-1">Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies </p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">All admission deficiencies must be removed prior to admission to the College. </li>					<li class="bullet-1">Students admitted to the University with three or more high school deficiencies, or two deficiencies in a single category other than foreign language, will not be admitted to a teacher education program until such deficiencies are removed.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL. JIM--These conditions are explained under “Removal of Deficiencies.” on page 6—gotta do something with red text!</li>					<li class="bullet-1"> The Dean of the College of Education and Human Sciences will make the final decision concerning any problems or questions that may arise in satisfying requirements to remove deficiencies.</li>				</ul>				<p class="section-1">Other Admission Requirements </p>				<p class="section-2">Pre-education</p>				<p class="basic-text">All newly admitted students who are pursuing a teacher preparation program, except those in nonteaching majors, are classified as pre-education until admitted to a Teacher Education Program.</p>				<p class="section-2">Admission to a Teacher Education Program (TEP)</p>				<p class="basic-text">College of Education and Human Sciences does not guarantee admission to a teacher education program. Admission to the advanced phases of teacher education is selective and, in some endorsements, highly competitive. Selection to a TEP is based upon the following criteria:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Elementary education students must earn a minimum of 30 credit hours of college credit; secondary education students must earn a minimum of 42 credit hours of college credit.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Completion and submission of the Teacher Education Program Approval Form.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Completion of TEAC 331 or 430 or 431 or 434 or 437 or 496 (3 hrs) or approved transfer course, and EDPS 250 or 251 with a 2.5 cumulative average in the two classes, and no grade lower than C.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Documentation of proficiency in reading, writing, and mathematics through successful completion of a basic skills examination that meets the Nebraska Department of Education competency requirement.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">5. Completion of one course in communication studies selected from COMM 109, 205, 209, 210, or 286, or approved substitute.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">6. Faculty recommendations.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">7. Completion of a personal and professional fitness self-disclosure form as well as the completion of a formal criminal history review. (See Felony and Misdemeanor Convictions under OTHER.)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">8. Specific programs may have particular learning outcomes that students must address as part of the application process.</p>				<p class="section-2">Post-baccalaureate Students Seeking Initial Teaching Certification</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who have received a bachelors degree or higher and desire to obtain an initial teaching certificate may do so by pursuing a non-degree post-baccalaureate initial certification program with or without a masters degree. They must apply to the Graduate College for admission to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln and apply to a Teacher Education Program (TEP) for admission to the initial teaching certification program. Students are also required to apply for admission to a degree program if they desire to pursue a masters degree with their certification program. All students seeking initial certification must meet with the post baccalaureate assistant academic adviser. Those seeking a masters degree will also meet with a faculty adviser. Post-baccalaureate students interested in completing a teacher education program should refer to this bulletin as to policies and regulations for program completion. For specific guidelines, see the Student Services Center.</p>				<p class="section-2">Admission to Student Teaching</p>				<p class="basic-text">All students who are candidates for an appropriately endorsed Nebraska Teacher’s Certificate are required to student teach. Students who plan to student teach in the fall semester must complete the student teaching application form and submit it by the preceding March 1 to the Director of Field Experiences in 104 Henzlik Hall; students planning to student teach in the spring semester must apply by the preceding October 1. The basic program for student teaching provides for a full-day experience on a semester basis. Students enrolled in an elementary education dual major will complete requirements for student teaching in both majors. Admission to student teaching requires the following:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Matriculation in a teacher education program in the College of Education and Human Sciences, the Graduate College, or dual matriculation in the College of Education and Human Sciences and another college.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Admission to a teacher education program.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Senior standing (89 hours or more) with a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Minimum average of 2.5 in each endorsement area with no grade below C.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">5. A minimum grade point average of 2.5 in preprofessional and professional education courses and no grade below C in pre-professional education courses and no grade below a C+ in professional education courses.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">6. Completion of a criminal history check that will be conducted by an independent party (fee required).</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADVISING (Content Box Heading):</p>				<p class="section-1">Academic Advising</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">The College of Education and Human Sciences Student Services Center is staffed with professional advisers who assist students with assessing educational goals, planning programs of study, understanding program requirements and knowing policies and procedures. As course selection and registration are critical to the timely completion of their academic goals, students are well advised to seek regular academic counseling from their assigned advisers in the Center to obtain the most up-to-date information regarding current requirements and timely completion of degree programs.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">The Center is also staffed with professionals to coordinate field placements, student teaching and teaching certificate application.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Ultimately, students are themselves responsible for fulfilling all the requirements of the curriculum in which they are enrolled. The intellectual mentoring relationship between academic adviser and student is protected by confidentiality and strengthened by listening with understanding to student concerns. A student remains with an adviser for the duration of the educational program unless the student changes his/her program of study.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Intellectual mentoring by the academic adviser fosters:</li>				</ul>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Development of an awareness of available choices, alternatives and resources;</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Guidance with decision making;</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Encouragement to expand horizons by full participation in university life; and</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Promotion of readiness to meet career, life and graduate/professional school challenges.</p>				<p class="section-1">Student Responsibility</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students are expected to take responsibility for a successful university experience and effective advising sessions by:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Participating in orientation/early enrollment programs;</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Scheduling appointments with advisers prior to priority registration and at other times as needed;</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Identifying class choices from requirements of the preferred program or major;</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Identifying questions to address;</p>				<p class="numbered-list">5. Informing advisers of any special needs, deficiencies or barriers that might affect academic success;</p>				<p class="numbered-list">6. Knowing academic policies and academic calendar deadlines, procedures (e.g., registration, fee payment) and degree or program requirements;</p>				<p class="numbered-list">7. Remaining informed about progress in meeting academic requirements by maintaining careful academic records and seeking assistance to resolve any errors or questions; and</p>				<p class="numbered-list">8. Following through on recommendations to seek assistance from the various student support services provided by the university.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES (Content Box Heading):</p>				<p class="section-1">Academic Load</p>				<p class="basic-text">A maximum of 18 credit hours may be taken each semester (4 hours in the Pre Session; 7 in each five week session; 9 in the eight week session) without special authorization from the Director of Advising. UNL students must be enrolled in 12 hours in a semester to be considered full time. Most first-year students are advised to take no more than 12-15 credit hours in the first semester. This allows new students to make an easier transition from high school to college study. Most students require 2-3 hours of preparation for every hour in class, so a schedule of 12 credit hours is actually equivalent to a 36-48 hour a week job.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Outside work may interfere with academic success. The student who must work should plan to take a lighter load and consider taking some summer sessions or an extra semester or two to complete the work required for a degree. </p>				<p class="basic-text">Students should check if restrictions on the number of graded hours each term govern their continued eligibility for medical insurance, scholarships, and/or financial aid.</p>				<p class="section-1">Course Exclusions &amp; Restrictions</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">MATH 95C, MATH 100A, CSCE 137 and courses taken to remove high school deficiencies may not be applied toward graduation requirements, not even as elective credit.</li>				</ul>				<p class="section-1">Credit Rules</p>				<p class="section-2">Credit by Exam</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who believe that previous experience satisfies course requirements may approach the appropriate academic department for possible credit by exam options. Credit is rarely given simply for work experience.</p>				<p class="section-1">Student Recognition</p>				<p class="basic-text">A College Student Award Committee determines criteria for awards and recognizes outstanding students.</p>				<p class="section-1">Dean’s List</p>				<p class="basic-text">A Dean’s List of Education and Human Sciences and dual matriculated students who meet the stated criteria is published in the fall and spring semesters. To be eligible, students must have a minimum semester grade point average of 3.75 in 12 or more graded semester hours. Exceptions are made for students taking required courses offered only on a Pass/No Pass basis.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Student teachers and practica students who either 1) enter the semester of student teaching with a cumulative GPA of 3.75 or above, or 2) earn a 3.75 GPA during the preceding semester on the basis of 12 or more graded semester hours, will be eligible for the Dean’s List with recommendation from the University supervisor.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Post-baccalaureate students working on certifications are eligible upon request to the Director of Advising, but only undergraduate hours apply.</p>				<p class="section-1">Degrees with Distinction</p>				<p class="basic-text">In recognition of outstanding academic excellence, the College of Education and Human Sciences recommends the bachelors degree With Distinction, With High Distinction and With Highest Distinction. All students graduating with distinction must meet the following criteria:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Candidates must have completed at least 60 hours at UNL (Child, Youth and Family Studies students enrolled at UNO) by the time of graduation.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Persons in teaching endorsement programs must satisfactorily complete student teaching; persons in non-endorsement programs must satisfactorily fulfill practica or other internship experiences as required by their programs of study.</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Eligibility is based on the cumulative grade point average of all credit hours taken at UNL (UNO) prior to the beginning of the term in which the student receives his or her degree.</li>				</ul>				<p class="basic-text">Highest Distinction. Candidates for the bachelors degree who have successfully completed the program to which they were admitted and achieved a 4.0 cumulative grade point average.</p>				<p class="basic-text">High Distinction. Candidates for the bachelors degree who have successfully completed the program to which they were admitted and achieved a 3.950 thru 3.999 cumulative grade point average.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Distinction. Candidates for the bachelors degree who have successfully completed the program to which they were admitted and have achieved a 3.850 thru 3.949 cumulative grade point average.</p>				<p>International Study/Study Abroad</p>				<p class="section-1">Substitutions &amp; Waivers</p>				<p class="section-2">Special Requests for Substitutions and Waivers</p>				<p class="basic-text">In rare cases, there may be a need for students to request a special substitution or waiver to curriculum requirements. Such a request is made only in exceptional and unusual circumstances and cannot serve as an excuse for not following correct degree requirements. Specific instructions and procedures are available from students’ academic advisers in the Student Services Center, 105 Henzlik Hall.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ACE REQUIREMENTS (Content Box Heading) (Major Page):</p>				<p class="basic-text">All students must fulfill the Achievement Centered Education (ACE) requirements. Information about the ACE program may be viewed at ace.unl.edu.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The goals of a general, liberal education are to promote the understanding of broad areas of knowledge and to develop attitudes, values, thought processes, and basic abilities expected from an educated person. All UNL students who are following the 2010-11 bulletin will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated ACE Student Learning Outcome (SLO) areas which are described on page at ace.unl.edu. It is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>				<p class="section-3">Additional ACE Course Work for Secondary Education:</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in secondary education programs need four additional ACE courses.</p>				<p class="basic-text">One of the 14 total ACE courses must be an approved speech course: COMM 109, 205, 209,210. At least two of the 14 ACE courses must be at the 300 or 400 level.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">BULLETIN TO USE (Content Box Heading) (Major Page):</p>				<p class="basic-text">Transfer and readmitted students must meet the graduation requirements for the College of Education and Human Sciences as stated in the current catalog in effect at the time they enter or reenter the College. Students must fulfill degree requirements that exist at the time of their admission to the college, not at the time they enter UNL.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS (Content Box Heading) (Major Page): </p>				<p class="section-1">College General Education Requirements (those separate or related to ACE)</p>				<p class="section-1">Foreign Languages/Language Requirement</p>				<p class="section-1">Minimum Hours Required for Graduation (if the college has a minimum hour requirement)</p>				<p class="basic-text">Total hours required for graduation vary by program. Students must refer to the specific major link to learn more about specific degree requirements for each undergraduate major. </p>				<p class="section-1">Grade Rules </p>				<p class="section-2">C- and D Grades </p>				<p class="section-3">Education Majors:</p>				<p class="basic-text">Grades below C (C-, D+, D and D-) may not be applied in any endorsement, professional education requirement or non-teaching major professional course requirement in degrees leading to teacher preparation.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Up to 9 hours of transfer credit with grades below C may be applied to the General Education requirements and elective classes in programs leading to the undergraduate degree in teacher preparation. Transfer grades of C- and D may not be used in the major/endorsement area courses or in the professional courses in teacher preparation programs.</p>				<p class="section-3">Human Science Majors:</p>				<p class="basic-text">For Human Science majors, up to 9 hours of grades below C (C-, D+, D, D-) from other academic institutions can only be applied to general education requirements and elective classes.</p>				<p class="section-2">Grades Earned Outside UN System</p>				<p class="basic-text">The college will accept no more than 9 credit hours of grades less than a C from any program outside the University of Nebraska system. Grades below a C can only be applied to general education requirements and elective classes.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Up to 9 hours of transfer credit with grades below C may be applied to the General Education requirements and elective classes in programs leading to the undergraduate degree in teacher preparation. Transfer grades of C- and D may not be used in the major/endorsement area courses or in the professional courses in teacher preparation programs. </p>				<p class="basic-text">For Human Science majors, up to 9 hours of grades below C (C-, D+, D, D-) from other academic institutions can only be applied to general education requirements and elective classes.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Transfer courses are evaluated by the University and the College to determine UNL and College course equivalencies. The College determines which courses will be accepted and how they will apply toward degree requirements. Sixty-six (66) is the maximum number of hours that will be accepted on transfer from a two-year college. Ninety-five (95) is the maximum number of hours that will be accepted on transfer from accredited four-year colleges and universities. Courses taken 10 years before admission or readmission to the College will be evaluated by the major department to determine if it is appropriate to accept those courses for transfer and application to degree requirements. Specific courses will be reviewed in keeping with the guidelines specified by each department.</p>				<p class="section-2">Grades Earned Within UN System</p>				<p class="basic-text">JIM--Grades of D-, D, D+, and C- satisfy requirements in all programs in the College unless specified otherwise under the “Degree Programs and Requirements in Education (Teacher Preparation)” on page 253, “Courses of Instruction in Education” on page 260, or “Areas of Study in Human Sciences” on page 268 of this bulletin. Students who receive a grade of D-, D, D+, C-, however, are encouraged to retake the course.</p>				<p class="section-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>				<p class="section-3">Education Majors</p>				<p class="basic-text">A student enrolled at the University may, in certain instances, take a grading option of Pass/No Pass (P/N) for a specific course. A grade of pass represents satisfactory completion of a course with a grade of C or better. Credits earned under the pass grade option count toward graduation, but no grade points are tabulated in the cumulative grade point average. Likewise, a grade of no pass is not tabulated in the grade point average. The following rules apply to students who are enrolled in teacher preparation programs who choose the Pass/No Pass option:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Only one course in each subject endorsement; two courses in a field endorsement.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. For students in certification programs, pre-professional and professional education classes may not be taken Pass/No Pass unless a class already has a Pass/No Pass designation</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Any course in the general education requirements unless otherwise stipulated by the department of the course.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Total P/N credits may not exceed 12 credit hours. This limit does not include courses offered on a Pass/No Pass only basis.</p>				<p class="section-3">Human Science Majors</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Pass/No Pass (P/N) option is designed for students who want to study elective areas or topics when they may have minimum preparation. If used for this purpose, the option can enrich the student’s academic experience without lowering the student’s grade point average. Free electives may be taken P/N. Students can earn no more than 12 hours of pass credit excluding courses offered on Pass/No Pass only basis.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Not all classes in Human Science majors can be taken under the Pass/No Pass option. All courses, specified by course and number, must be taken for a grade. Should a student have earned a P in one of the courses prior to starting the option, the P will be reviewed by the appropriate department.</p>				<p class="section-2">GPA Requirements</p>				<p class="section-3">Grade Requirements in Education Programs</p>				<p class="basic-text">Requirements for completion of an undergraduate degree in a teacher preparation program include a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.5. Students seeking certification must also have a 2.5 GPA in their education courses with no grade lower than a C. Students are also required to have a 2.5 GPA in their subject endorsement area(s) with no grade lower than C in either area.</p>				<p class="section-3">Grade Requirements in Human Sciences</p>				<p class="basic-text">A minimum 2.0 cumulative GPA is required to graduate. Students in family and consumer sciences education must have a minimum 2.5 GPA. </p>				<p class="section-1">Transfer Credit Rules</p>				<p class="section-2">Maximum Number of Hours for Transfer </p>				<p class="basic-text">Transfer courses are evaluated by the University and the College to determine UNL and College course equivalencies. The College determines which courses will be accepted and how they will apply toward degree requirements. Sixty-six (66) is the maximum number of hours that will be accepted on transfer from a two-year college. Ninety-five (95) is the maximum number of hours that will be accepted on transfer from accredited four-year colleges and universities.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Courses taken 10 years before admission or readmission to the College will be evaluated by the major department to determine if it is appropriate to accept those courses for transfer and application to degree requirements. Specific courses will be reviewed in keeping with the guidelines specified by each department.</p>				<p class="section-2">Transfer Credit from Technical, Non-Accredited and Foreign Institutions</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who desire to transfer from these institutions must have each course evaluated by the appropriate departmental representative. All rules stated above in reference to grades and maximum credit hours apply. For additional information and guidance in this process contact the Dean’s Office.</p>				<p class="section-2">Transfer Agreements with UNO and UNK</p>				<p class="basic-text">Transfer agreements between the three institutions within the University System allow for a smooth transition for students interested in taking courses from UNO, UNK, and/or UNL. Although restrictions noted above on grades and maximum transfer hours still apply, there are some exceptions. For purposes of residency, courses from UNO and UNK fulfill these requirements. Students planning to major in a program in the college should read the specific requirements noted with individual programs. Questions about academic transfer should be addressed to the Dean’s Office.</p>				<p class="section-2">Transfer Agreements with Community Colleges</p>				<p class="basic-text">Articulation agreements and “Transfer with Ease Programs” with Nebraska community colleges indicate how courses and programs will transfer to UNL and the College of Education and Human Sciences. The same guidelines noted above on the acceptance of courses, grades, and hours also apply to these institutions. Students interested in transferring from a community college should consult with their school or the Student Services Center to determine which courses will transfer to fulfill specific College of Education and Human Sciences requirements.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Courses from accredited two-year institutions will generally not be substituted for 400-level human sciences classes in the College. The 300-level courses will be considered on an individual basis by the respective departments in the College of Education and Human Sciences.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Courses taken prior to course articulation agreements will be accepted contingent upon departmental validation of the credit.</p>				<p class="section-1">Course Level Requirements (Hour Requirement 300+)</p>				<p class="section-1">Residency</p>				<p class="basic-text">A minimum total of 125 credit hours of course work in teacher preparation programs is required for a bachelors degree in education and human sciences, of which 30 of the last 36 hours of credit needed for a degree must be registered for and completed in residence at a University of Nebraska system institution. This means that the last year of work must generally be spent at UNL. Half of the credit needed to graduate can be earned by means of correspondence courses; however, such credit does not count toward residence and thus cannot be among the last 30 credit hours earned. Independent Study and summer reading courses sponsored by the UNL Extended Education do not apply to residency.</p>				<p class="section-2">Residency Requirement and Study Abroad Courses</p>				<p class="basic-text">Credit earned during study abroad may be used toward degree requirements if students participate in prior approved programs and register through UNL (see “Study Abroad and Exchange Programs” on page 20).</p>				<p class="section-1">Extended Education and Independent Study Rules </p>				<p class="basic-text">Independent Study and summer reading courses sponsored by the UNL Extended Education do not apply to residency. </p>				<p class="section-1">Other College Degree Requirements</p>				<p class="section-2">Grade Appeals</p>				<p class="basic-text">Any student enrolled in a course in the College of Education and Human Sciences who wishes to appeal alleged unfair and prejudicial treatment by a faculty member shall present his/her appeal in writing to the Dean’s Office no later than 30 days after notice of the student’s final course grade has been mailed from campus.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students may use and are encouraged to use the following sequential procedures to appeal the grade. The problem may be solved at any of the levels of the appeal procedure.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Contact the instructor. Frequently the problems can be solved at this point.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Submit a request to the chair of the department.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Take the case to the departmental Grading Appeals Committee. The Committee is contacted by the department chair.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Take the case to the College Appeals, Retention and Certification Committee by contacting the Dean’s Office.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The complaint will be forwarded to a committee consisting of faculty and student representatives. After a hearing, the Committee will make a written recommendation regarding the appeal. The Committee’s recommendation is binding on the appealing student and faculty member.</p>				<p class="section-1">Senior Check and Degree Application</p>				<p class="basic-text">During student teaching, all students must apply for and have completed a senior check.</p>				<p class="basic-text">It is the student’s responsibility to notify Graduation Services, 109 Canfield Administration Building, early in the semester the student plans to graduate. Failure to meet the published deadline will delay graduation one full term.</p>				<p class="section-1">Program Evaluation and Assessment</p>				<p class="basic-text">College wide assessment and department assessment committees, comprised of faculty and students, assist the college/departments in evaluating the effectiveness of programs. Students participate in college-wide surveys, exit interviews and portfolio development. Student involvement in assessment will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation. In addition, graduates may be asked to participate in post graduation surveys which seek information about professional preparation and employment.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in education teaching endorsement programs are required to do any or all of the following, prior to graduation:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">pass a test that measures subject area knowledge;</li>					<li class="bullet-1">have their teaching performance judged to be satisfactory by professional evaluators;</li>					<li class="bullet-1">complete the appropriate Praxis II tests for their respective endorsement areas and grade levels.</li>				</ul>				<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER (CONTENT BOX HEADING):</p>				<p class="section-1">Felony and Misdemeanor Convictions</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Nebraska Department of Education policy requires that a person with any felony conviction or a misdemeanor conviction involving abuse, neglect, or sexual misconduct shall not be allowed to participate in pre-student teaching laboratory and classroom experiences or student teach without approval of the Board of Education. To comply with this policy, the College of Education and Human Sciences will require each student to affirm under oath that he/she does not have any convictions in the above-named areas prior to each field experience. If a student does have any felony or any misdemeanor convictions, he/she is required to meet with the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experiences as soon as possible.</p>				<p class="basic-text"> To ensure that each individual complies with this policy, all students who are pursuing a teaching certificate will be required to periodically complete a “Personal and Professional Fitness” form (PPF) as well as submit to two formal reviews of their criminal history, which is conducted by an independent third party. The first review will be completed during the first semester of the individual’s freshman year or upon the individual’s transfer into the College of Education and Human Sciences. At that time, each student will complete the PPF form and will also be expected to submit a request for the review of their criminal history. The PPF form will again be completed and submitted as a part of the application process for the Teacher Education Program. The final review, including the submission of the PPF form and the completion of a second criminal history check, will take place as part of the application process to student teach. Each student is responsible for the cost of the two criminal history reviews.</p>				<p class="section-1">Professional and Ethical Behavior</p>				<p class="basic-text">Teaching is a profession that requires its potential candidates to be individuals of integrity. Prospective teachers must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and for their students. Teachers are responsible for the education, safety and well-being for anyone in their charge. Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences is interested in training future teachers who show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act responsibly. These individuals must be able to serve as representatives of our College and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln.</p>				<p class="basic-text">With this in mind, it is the responsibility of the student to inform the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experiences of any convictions handed down by any court or any plea of guilty made by the individual. At that time, should the College, through its reasonable judgment, determine that one’s individual behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons and others in the educational community, the College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to deny entry to or dismiss anyone from any program which leads to certification. More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum, pre-practicum, student teaching or similar field experience, since the interests and safety of the children, and young people present in the classroom, schools and other venues where these practicum experiences take place are paramount.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Problematic behaviors, which the College of Education and Human Sciences reasonably determines renders the candidate a risk to the educational community or demonstrates a likelihood of illegal activity, may be established by any credible means, including the facts surrounding a record of arrests and/or convictions.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Similarly, behaviors which result in a finding by a court or other governmental body that the individual is:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">a mentally ill and dangerous person;</li>					<li class="bullet-1">mentally incompetent to stand trial;</li>					<li class="bullet-1">acquitted of criminal charges because of insanity;</li>					<li class="bullet-1">an incapacitated person;</li>					<li class="bullet-1">a person in need of a guardian or conservator, or;</li>					<li class="bullet-1">a person unable to manage his or her property due to mental illness, mental deficiency, or chronic use of drugs or chronic intoxication are the kind of behaviors which are likely to disqualify a candidate from participation in practicum experiences and other College of Education and Human Sciences programs.</li>				</ul>				<p class="content-box-h-1">DEGREES &amp; MAJORS (Content Box Heading):</p>				<p class="section-1">Degrees and Endorsements In Education (Teacher Preparation)</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences offers an undergraduate bachelor of science in education and human sciences degree. The College offers undergraduate programs leading to a bachelor of science in education and human sciences in more than 40 different teaching endorsements and in undergraduate programs leading to careers in fields, such as administrative resource management and technical education.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Some students in other colleges choose to seek certification, completing a degree in their home college while meeting all requirements for teacher certification in the College of Education and Human Sciences.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Early field placement in public and private schools is a nationally recognized hallmark of the teacher education program in the College of Education and Human Sciences. These placements permit students to gain classroom experience early in their University studies, allowing them an opportunity to know both the satisfactions and the pressures of the classroom atmosphere long before they approach the end of their undergraduate work.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Secondary education endorsements (or majors) are divided into fields or single subjects. Students graduating from the College of Education and Human Sciences or working toward certification must complete one field endorsement or two subject endorsements and must take a methods course and student teach in each endorsement. A few supplemental endorsements are available that may enhance employment possibilities. Endorsements that require two subjects are noted with an (*). Students may contact the College Student Services Center, 105 Henzlik Hall, for additional information or an explanation of the requirements </p>				<p class="basic-text">For undergraduate endorsements, see the individual endorsements listed on the major search box on the main page of the bulletin.</p>				<p class="section-2">Undergraduate Teaching Endorsements</p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Agricultural Education. (see College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources</p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Art. (Grades K-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– *Art. (Grades K-6)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">– *Biology. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Business Education/Cooperative Education. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– *Chemistry. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Early Care and Education. (Birth-Age 5) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Early Childhood Education—Inclusive. (Birth-Grade 3) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– *Earth Science. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Economics and History. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Elementary Education. (Grades K-6): </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Dual endorsement programs in Elementary Education</p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Elementary Education–Early Childhood Education. (Elementary Education Grades K-6, Early Childhood Education Birth-Grade 3). </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Elementary Education and Mild/Moderate Disabilities. (Grades K-6) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Elementary Education and Deaf or Hard of Hearing Education (pre-professional concentration). (Grades K-6) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– English. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Family and Consumer Sciences. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– French. (Grades 7-12) Under review. Please see adviser.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Geography and History. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– German. (Grades 7-12) Under review. Please see adviser.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">– *History and a Non-Social Science Discipline. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Industrial Tech?</p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Journalism and Mass Communications and English. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Language Arts. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Latin. Under review. Please see adviser.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Marketing Education and Cooperative Education. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Mathematics. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Middle Grades Education. (Grades 4-9) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Mild/Moderate Disabilities. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Mild/Moderate Disabilities (Grades 7-12) and Deaf or Hard of Hearing (pre-professional</p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Mild/Moderate Disabilities: (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Music. For a description of the programs for teacher preparation in music, see the requirements for the bachelor of music education degree in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts section within this catalog.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Natural Science. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Physical Science. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– *Physics. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Political Science and History. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– *Reading and Writing. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Russian. (Grades 7-12) Under review. Please see adviser.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Social Science. (Grades 7-12) 62-63 hours</p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Spanish. (Grades 7-12) 30-46 hours: </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Speech and English. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Speech-Language Pathologist. (Grades P-12) </p>				<p class="numbered-list">– Theatre and English. (Grades 7-12) </p>				<p class="section-2">Supplemental Undergraduate Endorsements</p>				<p class="basic-text">To pursue a supplemental endorsement, students must either hold a valid teaching certificate or be admitted to a teacher education program. Also, supplements endorsements require the completion of either a field or a subject endorsement. </p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Coaching.</span> (Grades 7-12) 15 hours: ATHT 235 3 hrs; ATHC 279 and 494 3 hrs each; 6 hrs selected from ATHC 311, 312, 317, 318.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Cooperative Education–Diversified Occupations.</span> (9 hours): TEAC 424 or 815 3 hrs; TEAC 425 or 825 3 hrs; SPED 434/834 3 hrs. NOTE: Endorsement in business, marketing, or industrial technology required.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">English as a 2nd Language–Undergraduate.</span> (Grades K-12) 21 hrs: TEAC 213 and 438 3 hrs each; TEAC 441 or 411 or 411A or 411B 3 hrs; TEAC 413A, 413B, 413D, 497E 3 hrs each.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">English as a 2nd Language–Graduate.</span> (Grades K-12) 19 hrs: TEAC 438/838 or 813K 3 hrs, 841 or 811 or 811A or 811B 3 hrs, 813A, 813B, 813D 3 hrs each, 897E 1 hr; TEAC 813J or COMM 950 or 950B 3 hrs.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">High Ability Education. </span>(Grades K-12): Please contact John Bernthal at 472-5496. This program is offered jointly with the University of Nebraska at Kearney. For additional program information, please contact Dr. Joan Lewis at UNK at (308) 865-8613.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Information Technology–Undergraduate.</span> (Grades K-12) 17 hours: TEAC 323, 451L, 444 3 hrs each; TEAC 397L 1 hr; CSCE 101, 150 3 hrs each; CSCE 101L 1 hr.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Severe/Multiple Disabilities–Autism.</span> (Grades P-12) 23 hours: Teaching Certificate in Special Education – Mild/Moderate Disabilities or equivalent; SPED 480/880, 809, 881, 882, 897P 3 hrs each, 810, 896P, 980, 981 2 hrs each.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Vocational Special Needs.</span> (Grades 7-12) 15 hours: TEAC 434 3 hrs; SPED 436 3 hrs each; 6 hrs from SPED 201, 400.</p>				<p class="section-1">Non-Endorsement Programs</p>				<p class="basic-text">Non-teaching degree programs in administrative resource management, technical education and audiology are available.</p>				<p class="section-2">Audiology Option</p>				<p class="basic-text">This option is intended for undergraduate students who wish to major in the area of Communication Disorders with an emphasis in audiology and who ultimately expect to enter graduate school and obtain a masters degree in audiology. It is assumed that these students will NOT wish to be certified to be in the classroom.</p>				<p class="basic-text">It is highly recommended that students pursue the bachelor of science in education: Non-Teaching Endorsement Program (BSEd). The following curriculum is based upon the requirements for that degree.</p>				<p class="basic-text">In addition to the education general requirements, students must complete the following:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">– SLPA 101, 150, 250, 251, 271 (3 hrs ea), 397A (1 hr), 455, 456 (4 hrs ea), 421, 472 (3 hrs ea);</p>				<p class="numbered-list">– PSYC 463, 465 (3 hrs ea)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">– One speech disorders course (SLPA 464 recommended) (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">– One language disorders course (SLPA 461 recommended) (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="basic-text">NOTE: Students in audiology need the following specific courses that also fulfill general education requirements: BIOS 101/101L, 213/213L; MATH 102, 104 or 106; PHYS 141; PSYC 181.</p>				<p class="section-1">DEGREES IN HUMAN SCIENCES -Child, Youth and Family Studies</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College offers programs leading to a bachelor of science in education and human sciences in the following areas:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Inclusive Early Childhood Education:</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Birth to Grade 3</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Child Development/Early Childhood Education*</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Family and Consumer Sciences Education*</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Child, Youth and Family Studies and Journalism and Mass Communications*</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Family Science*</li>				</ul>				<p class="asterisk">*Available at UNO.</p>				<p class="section-1">DEGREES IN HUMAN SCIENCES -Nutritional Science and Dietetics</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College offers programs leading to a bachelor of science in education and human sciences in the following areas:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Athletic Training</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Culinary Science (Culinology®)</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Dietetics</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Dietetics/Journalism and Mass Communications</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Nutrition, Exercise and Health Science</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Nutrition Science</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Hospitality, Restaurant and Tourism Management</li>				</ul>				<p class="section-1">DEGREES IN HUMAN SCIENCES -Textiles, Clothing and Design</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College offers programs leading to a bachelor of science in education and human sciences in the following areas:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Merchandising*</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Textile and Apparel Design</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Textile Science**</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Textiles, Clothing and Design/Journalism and Mass Communications</li>				</ul>				<p class="asterisk">* Minor in marketing from College of Business Administration</p>				<p class="asterisk">** Minor in chemistry</p>				<p class="basic-text">These undergraduate programs provide students with an educational background for positions in a variety of government, business, community service, health care, and educational employment settings.</p>				<p class="section-2">Dual Degrees from College of Education and Human Sciences and Other UNL College (Requires Dual Matriculation)</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the College of Education and Human Sciences may earn a bachelor of science degree from the College of Education and Human Sciences and a bachelor of science degree from another UNL college. Students must complete the degree requirements for both colleges and a minimum of 30 credit hours beyond their primary college.</p>				<p class="section-2">Dual Options Within and Among Departments of the College of Education and Human Sciences</p>				<p class="basic-text">A student in the College of Education and Human Sciences may complete two or more areas of study within the College. Completion of the areas of study will be listed on the transcript. Students must complete the degree requirements for each area of study. </p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADD--STUDENT CLASSIFICATION FOR STUDENTS PURSUING TEACHER EDUCATION (CONTENT BOX HEADING):</p>				<p class="section-1">Pre-Education</p>				<p class="basic-text">All newly admitted students who are pursuing a teacher preparation program, except those in non-teaching majors, are classified as pre-education until admitted to a Teacher Education Program.</p>				<p class="section-2">Admission to a Teacher Education Program (TEP)</p>				<p class="basic-text">Admission to the College of Education and Human Sciences does not guarantee admission to a teacher education program. Admission to the advanced phases of teacher education is selective and, in some endorsements, highly competitive. Selection to a TEP is based upon the following criteria:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Elementary education students must earn a minimum of 30 credit hours of college credit; secondary education students must earn a minimum of 42 credit hours of college credit.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Completion and submission of the Teacher Education Program Approval Form.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Completion of TEAC 331 or 430 or 431 or 434 or 437 or 496 (3 hrs) or approved transfer course, and EDPS 250 or 251 with a 2.5 cumulative average in the two classes, and no grade lower than C.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Documentation of proficiency in reading, writing, and mathematics through successful completion of a basic skills examination that meets the Nebraska Department of Education competency requirement.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">5. Completion of one course in communication studies selected from COMM 109, 205, 209, 210, or 286, or approved substitute.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">6. Faculty recommendations.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">7. Completion of a personal and professional fitness self-disclosure form as well as the completion of a formal criminal history review. (See Felony and Misdemeanor Convictions above.)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">8. Specific programs may have particular learning outcomes that students must address as part of the application process.</p>				<p class="section-1">Post-baccalaureate Students Seeking Initial Teaching Certification</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who have received a bachelors degree or higher and desire to obtain an initial teaching certificate may do so by pursuing a non-degree post-baccalaureate initial certification program with or without a masters degree. They must apply to the Graduate College for admission to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln and apply to a Teacher Education Program (TEP) for admission to the initial teaching certification program. Students are also required to apply for admission to a degree program if they desire to pursue a masters degree with their certification program. All students seeking initial certification must meet with the post baccalaureate assistant academic adviser. Those seeking a masters degree will also meet with a faculty adviser. Post-baccalaureate students interested in completing a teacher education program should refer to this bulletin as to policies and regulations for program completion. For specific guidelines, see the Student Services Center.</p>				<p class="section-1">Admission to Student Teaching</p>				<p class="basic-text">All students who are candidates for an appropriately endorsed Nebraska Teacher’s Certificate are required to student teach. Students who plan to student teach in the fall semester must complete the student teaching application form and submit it by the preceding March 1 to the Director of Field Experiences in 104 Henzlik Hall; students planning to student teach in the spring semester must apply by the preceding October 1. The basic program for student teaching provides for a full-day experience on a semester basis. Students enrolled in an elementary education dual major will complete requirements for student teaching in both majors. Admission to student teaching requires the following:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Matriculation in a teacher education program in the College of Education and Human Sciences, the Graduate College, or dual matriculation in the College of Education and Human Sciences and another college.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Admission to a teacher education program.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Senior standing (89 hours or more) with a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Minimum average of 2.5 in each endorsement area with no grade below C.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">5. A minimum grade point average of 2.5 in pre-professional and professional education courses and no grade below C in pre-professional education courses and no grade below a C+ in professional education courses.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">6. Completion of a criminal history check that will be conducted by an independent party (fee required).</p>				<p class="section-1">Student Teaching Registration Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">Undergraduate students are required to take 12 credit hours of student teaching or student teaching related course work during a semester-long student teaching experience. Those individuals who are completing two field endorsements will student teach for 20 weeks and will register for a total of 14 credit hours. Graduate students completing a semester-long student teaching experience will register for 6 graduate hours for either a 16 or 20 week experience.</p>				<p class="basic-text">All pre-professional education, professional education, and subject area endorsement course work must be completed prior to student teaching. Students will not be allowed to student teach with anything more than 6 credit hours of general education requirements remaining for their degree or in their program. No additional course work can be taken during the student teaching semester.</p>				<p class="section-1">Student Teaching Placement</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Office of Field Experiences is responsible for the placement of student teachers. Several factors are considered in determining the district and school to which an individual is assigned. The availability of a cooperating teacher and supervisor who meet the requirements established by the Nebraska Department of Education and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln are among those factors. Opportunities to student teach out-of-state are limited and those placements are becoming increasingly difficult. All requests to student teach outside of the immediate Lincoln area must be individually reviewed and approved by the Director of Field Experiences.</p>				<p class="section-1">Removal from Student Teaching</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students participating in practicum or student teaching assignments may be removed from their assigned schools if their conduct suggests a lack of professional commitment and presents a negative influence on the well-being or learning of the students in the schools. Specific guidelines that all student teachers are to follow can be found in The Student Teaching Experience: A Handbook for the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. If such a problem occurs, the student in question will be removed by the Director of Field Experiences at the request of the cooperating teacher, building principal, and the College supervisor.</p>				<p class="basic-text">In such cases, a written report stating the problem and efforts to correct the situation will be forwarded to the Director of Field Experiences in the College Student Services Center.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Any student removed from a practicum or student teaching assignment may appeal that decision by submitting a written request to the College Appeals Committee within 30 days of the removal. The Appeals Committee will schedule a meeting, request pertinent information from the Director of Field Experiences, and notify the student several days in advance of the scheduled appeal meeting. Students are advised of their right to seek legal advice and may personally attend the Appeals Committee meeting.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Committee’s decision will be forwarded in writing to the student, to the Director of Field Experiences, and to the Dean of the College.</p>				<p class="section-1">Praxis II</p>				<p class="basic-text">All students completing a program leading to a teaching certificate with an endorsement in elementary grades (Grades K-6) will be required to take the EECIA-00011 version of Praxis II before graduation. Test completion will be documented through official test score results.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students will not be allowed to graduate unless this test is completed.</p>				<p class="section-1">Application for a Nebraska Teaching Certificate</p>				<p class="basic-text">To actively engage in the teaching profession, a candidate must fulfill both the College degree requirements and the professional certification requirements of the State of Nebraska. Undergraduate students apply for the teaching certificate online at www.nde.state.ne.us/tcert and apply for the baccalaureate degree in 109 Canfield Administration Building. Post-baccalaureate students completing teacher certification also apply online.</p>				<p class="basic-text">To be eligible for a recommendation for certification, a candidate must meet the following requirements:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Earn one or more degrees from the College of Education and Human Sciences or another accredited institution approved by the College of Education and Human Sciences with a minimum 2.5 grade point average.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Complete the teacher education general education requirements listed for elementary, middle grades or secondary education.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">3. Complete professional education requirements according to established standards.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">4. Complete endorsement(s) according to established standards.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">5. Successfully complete a required period of student teaching.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">6. Complete application for the degree and certificate.</p>				<p class="section-1">Graduation Without Certification </p>				<p class="basic-text">In rare cases, permission may be granted for a student to graduate without a recommendation for certification. This provision is for the student who does not qualify for or is removed from student teaching. However, there are times when because of illness or other extreme situations, a student will decide not to complete all professional requirements. In this situation, the student should contact his or her adviser, then complete a formal request to the College’s Certification Officer to be allowed to graduate without completing all certification requirements. If permission is granted, the student is expected to complete all professional requirements except student teaching. This includes a passing grade in all methods courses. If a student fails to complete at least one half of the student teaching assignment, the individual will be required to complete a culminating project not to exceed 6 credit hours.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Any student who graduates without a recommendation for certification will not be recommended for teacher certification in any state. In addition, the student will not be eligible for graduation with honors. If, at some future time, the student wishes to complete certification requirements, (s)he must first appeal for readmission to a teacher education program. At least one semester must pass after graduation before the appeal can be made. If the appeal is granted, the student will be treated as a readmitted student and will complete all requirements in effect at the time of reentry, including passing grades in all methods courses.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">GRADUATE STUDENT INFORMATION (Content Box Heading):</p>				<p class="section-1">EDUCATION </p>				<p class="basic-text">Majors in education leading to the indicated graduate degrees are:</p>				<p class="section-2">Education (Doctoral)</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Administration, Curriculum, and Instruction–EdD, PhD</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Community and Human Resources–EdD, PhD</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Psychological and Cultural Studies–PhD</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Education (Masters and Specialists)</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Curriculum and Instruction–MA, MEd, MST, EdS</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Educational Administration–MA, MEd</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Educational Psychology–MA, EdS</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Health and Human Performance–MEd, MPE, EdS</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Special Education–MA, MEd</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Special Education and Communication Disorders–EdS</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology–MS, EdS</li>				</ul>				<p class="basic-text">In addition to the above degrees, work leading to a Certificate of Specialization in Administration and Supervision is offered in the Department of Educational Administration. Courses of study provide for specialization in administration and supervision of the central school office, secondary and elementary schools, curriculum, instruction, community college, media centers, special education, and the area of speech pathology and audiology.</p>				<p class="basic-text">For information on graduate work in education, consult the Graduate Bulletin and the Web site, tc.unl.edu/grad.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Seniors in this University who have obtained in advance the approval of the Dean of Graduate Studies may receive up to 12 hours credit for graduate courses taken in addition to the courses necessary to complete their undergraduate work, provided that such credits are earned within the calendar year prior to receipt of the bachelors degree. (For procedures, inquire at the Office of Graduate Studies, 301 Canfield Administration Building.) Course work taken prior to receipt of the bachelors may not always be accepted for transfer to other institutions as graduate work.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Seniors at UNL needing not more than 9 hours of undergraduate credit to complete the bachelors degree and wishing to register for graduate credit may be granted admission to Graduate Studies on a provisional basis subject to receiving their baccalaureate within one calendar year. They must file applications to Graduate Studies and, if admitted, their graduate registrations may count as residence in the Graduate College.</p>				<p class="section-2">Endorsements for Graduate Students </p>				<p class="basic-text">Students graduating from the College of Education and Human Sciences or working towards certification must complete one field endorsement or two subject endorsements. Those that require a second endorsement are noted with an (*) asterisk. </p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Assessment Leadership.</span> (Grades P-12) 18 hours: TEAC 890, 893 3 hrs each; 991, 993 6 hrs each.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Behaviorally Disordered.</span> (Grades P-6) 40 hours: SPED 800 (prereq), 802, 803, 804, 841, 896, 907B, 908, 942 3 hrs each, 897B 6 hrs, 897Z 1 hr; EDPS 850 3 hrs; EDUC 800 or SLPA 854 3 hrs.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Behaviorally Disordered.</span> (Grades P-12) 40 hours: SPED 800 (prereq), 802, 803, 804, 841, 896, 907B, 908, 942 3 hrs each, 897B 6 hrs, 497Z 1 hr. Supporting courses 6 hrs: EDPS 850 or EDPS 851 or EDPS 869. Guided elective 3 hrs.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Counselor, School Guidance. </span>(Grades K-6) 47 hours: (Candidates must be admitted into a masters degree program in educational psychology or, in the case of an already existing graduate degree, must be reviewed and meet the existing admission requirements. The candidate must have a valid teaching or special services certificate and two years teaching experience.) EDPS 850, 853, 859, 869 or 985, 965A, 984, 800, 866, 868, 870, 964, 974, 975 3 hrs each, 997A, 997B 4 hrs each. NOTE: To add a 7-12 endorsement to a K-6 endorsement, a student must add EDPS 851 and an additional 997B at the 7-12 grade level.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Counselor, School Guidance. </span>(Grades 7-12) 47 hours: (Candidates must be admitted into a masters degree program in educational psychology or, in the case of an already existing graduate degree, must be reviewed and meet the existing admission requirements. The candidate must have a valid teaching or special services certificate and two years of teaching experience.) EDPS 851, 853, 859, 869 or 985, 965A, 984, 800, 866, 868, 870, 964, 974, 975 3 hrs each, 997A, 997B 4 hrs. NOTE: To add a K-6 endorsement to a 7-12 endorsement, a student must add EDPS 850 and an additional 997B at the K-6 grade level.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Deaf or Hard of Hearing/Subject.</span> (Grades P-12) 30-45 hours: Candidates must hold an initial certificate in Elementary Education, Middle Grades, or Special Education-Mild/Moderate Disabilities. Students without a Special Education certificate are required to take a four-course series in Special Education. Proficiency requirements: Demonstrated proficiency in American Sign Language; successful completion of SLPA 202 or minimum score on Sign Communication Proficiency Interview or EIPA or other approved measure. Prerequisites: SPED 400/800, 302/802, 304/803, 313/804 3 hrs each; SLPA 251 3 hrs (15 hours). SPED 472/872, 873, 874, 875, 897D, 960 3 hrs each; and either SPED 896D 3 hrs or 896D 2 hrs and 896E 1 hr; SLPA 850, 884, 956 3 hrs each (30 hours).</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Early Childhood Education.</span> (Grade P-3) 30-31 hours: Prerequisites: Must hold a valid elementary education teaching endorsement or permission. Consult the College of Education and Human Sciences for advising. CYAF 961 or SPED 960 3 hrs; CYAF 897A, 972 3 hrs each; CYAF 874 or 876 3 hrs; CYAF 877 or ALEC 802 or 807 3 hrs; CYAF 973 or PSYC 889 3 hrs; CYAF 865 or 896 3 hrs; CYAF 970 or 971 or SPED 860 3 hrs; CYAF 974 or EDPS 850 or TEAC 817 3 hrs. Select one course from the following: SPED 804, 860, 862, 863, or 960 3 hrs; or SLPA 862A and 862J 2 hrs ea.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Early Childhood Special Education.</span> (Birth thru grade 3) minimum 27 graduate hours: Prerequisites: Teaching Certificate Endorsement in Elementary Education (K-6) or Early Childhood Education (P-3) or Unified Early Childhood (Birth thru grade 3); SPED 800, 802, 804, 815 12 hrs. Required completion of (or equivalent): CYAF 970, SPED 890 (or SLPA 251), SPED 860, 861, 862, 863, 882, 960 and 897Q 3 hrs each.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Information Technology (graduate).</span> (Grades K-12) 19 hours: TEAC 851L, 860, 882A, 882B, 882D, 882J 3 hrs each; TEAC 894L 1 hr.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Library Media Specialist.</span> (Grades K-12): This program is offered jointly with the University of Nebraska at Omaha. Please contact Dr. Becky Pasco at UNO at (402) 554-2119 for advising.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Pre-School Disabilities.</span> (Birth thru K) minimum 30 hours: Prerequisites: Teaching Certificate Endorsement for Special Education or Speech Pathology; SPED 800, 802, 804 9 hrs. Required completion of (or equivalent): SPED 860, 861, 862, 863, 882, 960, 890 or (SLPA 251) 3 hrs each and SPED 897Q 6 hrs and CYAF 970 3 hrs. NOTE: There is a masters degree program available that includes an initial teaching certificate with this endorsement focus for students with undergraduate degrees outside education. Contact Special Education and Communication Disorders at 472-2141.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Reading Specialist.</span> (Grades P-12) 30 hours: Candidates must hold a valid teaching credential and have at least one year teaching experience. TEAC 802, 811, 838, 839, 841, TEAC/SPED 886, 886B 3 hrs each; TEAC 893 (Professional Development for Literacy Coaches version only) 3 hrs; select 6-8 hrs from the following: ENGL 957B 6 hrs, or TEAC 817, 854, 890, 990, 921, 950, 951, 952, 953 3 hrs; or EDPS 989 3 hrs; or SPED 805 3 hrs paralleled with 805A 1 hr or TEAC/SPED 806 3 hrs paralleled with 806A 1 hr; SPED 815 3 hrs paralleled with 815A 1 hr.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Visual Impairment.</span> (Grades P-12) 33 hours: Prerequisites: Admittance into VI program, hold or earn concurrently subject or field endorsement. If your endorsement is not in special education, the following core classes must be completed: SPED 800 and 803 3 hrs each. Requirements: SPED 846, 847, 849, 851, 852, 853, 882 3 hrs each; 852A 1 hr; 852B 2 hrs; 897V 3 hrs; guided electives in special education 6 hrs selected with adviser; braille proficiency exam.</p>				<p class="section-2">Special Services Endorsements</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">School Psychologist.</span> (Grades P-12) 76-85 hours: Candidate must hold a masters degree in educational or clinical psychology, education, or a related field. This is an educational specialist degree program. EDPS 859 or equivalent, 870 or equivalent, 868 or equivalent, 850 or 851, 854, 860, 863, 867, 869, 949, 952, 954 3 hrs each; 950, 951 4 hrs each; 996A 6 hrs; 958A or 959 7 hrs; 957A, 958B 8 hrs each; EDUC 800 or equivalent and 900B 3 hrs each; SPED 800, 802 or equivalent 3 hrs each.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">School Transition Specialist.</span> (Grades 7-12) 18 hours: SPED 800 or 834, 807, 808, 835 or 836, 837 or 896, 908 3 hrs each.</p>				<p class="section-2">Administrative and Supervisory Standard Certificates</p>				<p class="section-3">Standard Certificate Requirements</p>				<p class="basic-text">The completion of a masters degree or 36 hours of a specialist program and the fulfillment of the State Department of Education Guidelines for Certification are required to obtain the Standard Administrative and Supervisory Certificate. A minimum of 9 hours must be taken at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. All individuals seeking certification for an administrative certificate must hold or qualify for a Standard Teaching Certificate. The following endorsements on the certificate are available through the College of Education and Human Sciences. Candidates must have on file a program approved by the Department of Educational Administration.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Assessment Leadership.</span> Refer to Graduate Level Teaching Endorsements for list of courses.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Curriculum Supervisor.</span> (Grades P-12) 36 hours: EDAD 811, 830, 851, 903, 948; TEAC 800, 801, 888 3 hrs; Select one course from EDAD 833, 837, or 852 3 hrs; Select two courses from TEAC 846A, 846B, 848, 944, 944A, 944B, 944D, 944E 3 hrs each (6 total); Select one course from TEAC 830, 831, 832, 834, 840, 840A, 840B, 840D, 861, 902 3 hrs. NOTE: Students must be admitted to both educational administration and curriculum and instruction and meet exit requirements for both departments.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Principal, Elementary. </span>(Grades P-8) 36 hours: a) EDAD 811, 830, 833, 837, 851, 852, 903, 981 3 hrs each; b) TEAC 801 or 848 or 944 3 hrs, and TEAC 800 or 946 or 948 3 hrs; c) approved College of Education and Human Sciences course other than educational administration or curriculum and instruction 3 hrs; d) approved elective 3 hrs. Must complete satisfactorily a Professional Portfolio. Must either hold teaching endorsement valid for elementary school grades or earn additional 9 hrs pertaining to elementary school level. NOTE: Applicant must have met Nebraska Department of Education requirements for basic skills, human relations training, special education, and two years of teaching experience.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Principal, Middle Grades.</span> (Grades 4-9) 36 hours: a) EDAD 811, 830, 833, 837, 851, 852, 903, 981 3 hrs each; b) TEAC 801 or 848 or 944 3 hrs, and TEAC 800 or 946 or 948 3 hrs; c) approved College of Education and Human Sciences course other than educational administration or curriculum and instruction 3 hrs; d) approved elective 3 hrs. Must complete satisfactorily a Professional Portfolio. Must either hold teaching endorsement valid for middle school grades or earn additional 9 hrs pertaining to middle school level. NOTE: Applicant must have met Nebraska Department of Education requirements for basic skills, human relations training, special education, and two years of teaching experience.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Principal, Secondary. </span>(Grades 7-12) 36 hours: a) EDAD 811, 830, 833, 837, 851, 852, 903, 981 3 hrs each; b) TEAC 801 or 848 or 944 3 hrs, and TEAC 800 or 946 or 948 3 hrs; c) approved College of Education and Human Sciences course other than educational administration or curriculum and instruction 3 hrs; d) approved elective 3 hrs. Must complete satisfactorily a Professional Portfolio. Must either hold teaching endorsement valid for secondary school grades or earn additional 9 hrs pertaining to secondary school level. NOTE: Applicant must have met Nebraska Department of Education requirements for basic skills, human relations training, special education, and two years of teaching experience.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Supervisor of Special Education Programs.</span> (Grades P-12) 36 hours: EDAD 800 6 hrs, 811, 981 3 hrs each, EDAD approved electives 6 hrs; EDAD/SPED 857, 858 3 hrs each; 12 hrs approved graduate courses in special education, 6 of which are outside of person’s endorsement area, taken within past 6 years. NOTE: Special education endorsement required and 2 years of successful teaching experience.</p>				<p class="section-2">Administrative and Supervisory Professional Certificates</p>				<p class="basic-text">The completion of the specialist program and the fulfillment of the State Department of Education Guidelines for Certification are required to obtain the Professional Administrative and Supervisory Certificate. All individuals seeking certification for an administrative certificate must hold or qualify for a Standard Teaching Certificate. The following endorsements on this certificate are available through the College of Education and Human Sciences. Advisement for all specialist programs is through the Department of Educational Administration.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Superintendent.</span> (Grades P-12): 66 hours: Prereq: Must have a valid regular teaching certificate or an administrative and supervisory certificate (principal, curriculum supervisor) and at least two years of teaching experience. a) Educational Administration 42 hrs: EDAD 801, 811, 830, 833, 835, 837, 851, 852, 901, 903, 904, 905, 981, 998 3 hrs each; b) Teaching Learning and Teacher Education 6 hrs: either TEAC 801 or 848 or 944, and either Teach 800 or 946 or 948; c) supporting area other than Educational Administration or Teaching Learning and Teacher Education 3 hrs; d) approved electives 15 hrs.</p>				<p class="section-2">Courses of Instruction in Education</p>				<p class="basic-text">Prerequisites. In addition to the specific prerequisites of each course, the general prerequisite for all courses in the 400 series consists of not fewer than 12 hours of undergraduate credit in education, including 3 hours of educational psychology and 3 hours of educational methods.</p>				<p class="section-2">Workshop Seminars in Education</p>				<p class="basic-text">490/890, 493/893, 990 or 993. Workshop Seminar  (1-12 cr) Opportunity to learn and to put into practice the principles and techniques of developing instructional aids such as courses of study, resource units, handbooks, and motion picture guides.</p>				<p class="section-1">Graduate Studies in Human Sciences</p>				<p class="basic-text">Study beyond the undergraduate level may be required for those seeking technical or professional positions. The College offers opportunities to those who want to earn advanced degrees in the Graduate College.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Graduate education that develops professional competence of students combined with a strong sense of social responsibility continues to be the aim of the graduate faculty.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Graduate study leading to the masters degree is offered in the departments of child, youth and family studies; nutrition and health science; and textiles, clothing and design.</p>				<p class="basic-text">For the doctor of philosophy degree, courses of study in human sciences leading to the doctoral degree are offered through the College of Education and Human Sciences. Specific programs are designed to meet the needs and interests of individual students as directed by the supervisory committee.</p>				<p class="basic-text">For students interested primarily in a career in nutrition research, the interdepartmental area of nutrition provides work leading to the degrees of master of science and doctor of philosophy. For further information on these advanced degree programs see the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</p>				<p class="section-2">Acceptance of Senior Credits </p>				<p class="basic-text">Seniors who have advanced approval of the Dean of Graduate Studies may receive up to 12 hours credit for graduate courses taken in addition to the courses necessary to complete their undergraduate course work, provided that such credits are earned within the calendar year prior to receipt of the baccalaureate.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Seniors needing not more than 9 hours of undergraduate credit to complete the bachelors degree, and wishing to register for graduate credit, may be granted provisional admission to the Graduate College subject to receiving their baccalaureate within one calendar year.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">MINORS &amp; AREAS OF SPECIALIZATIONS OFFERED (Content Box Heading):</p>				<p class="section-1">African American Studies Minor (For Students in Teacher Preparation)</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in teacher preparation may obtain a minor in African American Studies by satisfactorily completing a minimum of 18 credit hours of work as prescribed by the adviser for the African American Studies minor in the College of Arts and Sciences. Students must file a C-D-M-A (College-Degree-Major-Adviser) form with the College Student Services Center prior to filing for graduation.</p>				<p class="section-2">Coaching Minor</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students in the College of Education and Human Sciences who are not seeking teaching certification may obtain a coaching minor by satisfactorily completing the coaching supplemental endorsement. Students must file C-D-M-A (College-Degree-Major-Adviser) form with the College Student Services Center prior to filing for graduation.</p>				<p class="section-2">Education Minor (For Non-Teacher Education Students)</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">18 hours: TEAC 331 or equivalent and 330 3 hrs ea; EDPS 250 or 251 and 362 or 457 3 hrs ea; SPED 201 3 hrs; CYAF 380 or approved elective from CYAF, EDPS, NUTR, SPED, or TEAC 3 hrs.</li>				</ul>				<p class="section-2">Area of Specialization in Education</p>				<p class="basic-text">Multicultural Education. It is possible to obtain multicultural education specialization along with a teaching endorsement. Basic requirements are as follows: </p>				<p class="endorsements">TEAC 330, 433, 434, 436, and approved elective; 12 hrs selected from ANTH 212, 242, 351, 482; ENGL 220, 244B, 245B, 245D, 245J, 445; HIST 357; POLS 238; SOCI 217, 218, 481; COMM 211 or 380. An approved field/practicum experience outside of normal class assignments (3 cr); student teaching in a multicultural setting; and demonstrated language proficiency through course work or testing in one of the following languages: Spanish, Vietnamese, Sioux (Lakota/Dakota), Portuguese, Chinese, Japanese, German, Czech, Russian or French. </p>				<p class="section-2">HUMAN SCIENCES -International Studies Minor</p>				<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences offers a minor in international studies to students in the human sciences.</p>				<p class="section-3">Human Sciences International Minor</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">18 Hour International Studies Minor</li>				</ul>				<p class="numbered-list">HUMS 465 International Perspectives of Human Resources and Family Sciences (3 cr)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">TXCD 123 Clothing and Human Behavior or NUTR 253 Cultural Aspects of Food and Nutrition or CYAF 495 Special Topics in Family and Cultural Diversity (Diversity) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">Maximum of 9 credits from one department or program—Applicable courses from College of Arts and Sciences International Studies Thematic Specialization List (1. Power and Production; 2. International Relations; 3. Cultural Encounters) (See page 187.)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">Minimum of 3 hours of preapproved International or Cultural Experience (HUMS 490)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">Minimum of 6 credits at or above the 300 level</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">12 Hour International Studies Minor</li>				</ul>				<p class="numbered-list">HUMS 465 International Perspectives of Human Resources and Family Sciences (3 cr)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">TXCD 123 Clothing and Human Behavior or NUTR 253 Cultural Aspects of Food and Nutrition or CYAF 495 Special Topics in Family and Cultural Diversity (Diversity) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">Applicable courses from College of Arts and Sciences International Studies Thematic Specialization List (1. Power and Production; 2. International Relations; 3. Cultural Encounters) (See page 187.)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">Minimum of 9 credits at or above the 300 level</p>				<p class="section-2">HUMAN SCIENCES - Hospitality Management Minor</p>				<p class="basic-text">The hospitality management minor is for students in CASNR and CEHS Human Sciences (Child, Youth and Family; Nutrition and Health Science; Textile, Clothing and Design) Departments.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">Required 9 hours:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">HRTM 171 Intro to Hospitality, Restaurant &amp; Tourism Management (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">HRTM 285 Intro to Lodging (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">HRTM 289 Intro to the Event Industry (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">Select 9 hours from:</p>				<p class="numbered-list">HRTM 280 Intro to Tourism (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">HRTM 373 Catering (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">HRTM 374 Guest Services Management (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">HRTM 474 Food &amp; Beverage Management (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">HRTM 478 Tourism Resources &amp; Development (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">HRTM 479 Hospitality Industry Perspectives (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">HRTM 485 Advanced Lodging Operations (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">HRTM 489 Convention &amp; Meeting Planning (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">NUTR 471 Vines, Wine &amp; You (3 hrs)</p>				<p class="section-2">HUMAN SCIENCES - Minors in Other Colleges</p>				<p class="basic-text">An undergraduate student with a major in human sciences who wants a minor in another college should consult with their College of Education and Human Sciences adviser and prepare the list of approved courses desired for the minor.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">Arts and Sciences. </span>Prepare the list of courses required for either Plan A or Plan B in the chosen minor as indicated in the College of Arts and Sciences section of this bulletin. Plan A indicates a single minor; Plan B indicates two minors with fewer hours in each subject than the number required for a single minor.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Complete a Change of Major/Adviser (CDMA) form in the Student Services Center, 105 Henzlik.</p>				<p class="endorsements"><span class="endorsement-title">General Agriculture. </span>Students in human sciences may obtain a minor in general agriculture by satisfactorily completing a minimum of 18 credit hours of work in courses offered by the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources (CASNR).</p>				<p class="basic-text">More specific details about general areas and courses are given in the CASNR section of this bulletin. The specific minor program must be prepared in consultation with the CASNR Dean’s office, room 103 Agriculture Hall.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">HUMS 465 International Perspectives of Human Resources and Family Sciences (3 cr)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">TXCD 123 Clothing and Human Behavior or NUTR 253 Cultural Aspects of Food and Nutrition or CYAF 495 Special Topics in Family and Cultural Diversity (Diversity) (3 cr)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">Maximum of 9 credits from one department or program—Applicable courses from College of Arts and Sciences International Studies Thematic Specialization List (1. Power and Production; 2. International Relations; 3. Cultural Encounters) (See page 187.)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">Minimum of 3 hours of preapproved International or Cultural Experience (HUMS 490)</p>				<p class="numbered-list">Minimum of 6 credits at or above the 300 level</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>