<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>College_of_Jour_&amp;_Mass_Comm</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="college-of-jour-mass-comm">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name">College of Journalism &amp; Mass Communications</p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points">College of Journalism &amp; Mass Communications </p>
				<p class="title-1">About the College</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Gary Kebbel, </span>M.A., M.S.W., M.A., Dean and Professor of Journalism, 472-3041</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Charlyne Berens,</span> Ph.D., Associate Dean and Professor of Journalism, 472-3041</p>
				<p class="title-2">Mission/Objectives/Goals</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The primary mission of the College of Journalism and Mass Communications is to graduate highly competitive young professionals who have acquired communication and critical thinking skills appropriate to the practice of journalism and strategic communications: writing, editing, oral presentation and design in print, broadcast and interactive media. Because a viable career in the media professions requires graduates to understand the changes in society that make differences in people’s lives, journalism and mass communications education includes a fusion with the liberal arts and sciences at UNL.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The college’s mission dictates a high priority role for excellent undergraduate teaching in advertising, broadcasting and news-editorial. An MA in journalism and mass communications complements this emphasis by building on a well established and nationally recognized undergraduate curriculum.</p>
				<p class="title-2">Administrative Structure</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The college includes two sequences—advertising and journalism—in which students may major in advertising, broadcasting, or news-editorial.</p>
				<p class="title-3">Undergraduate Majors</p>
				<p class="list-indent">Advertising </p>
				<p class="list-indent">Broadcasting </p>
				<p class="list-indent">News-editorial </p>
				<p class="title-2">Faculty</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Quality undergraduate teaching is a source of pride in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications. Most classes are small, and faculty members are known for the individual attention they give to their students. Faculty have a wealth of experience in the communications professions: as advertising and public relations managers, writers and designers for advertising and public relations agencies, newspapers and broadcasting outlets; as writers, producers and on-air talent for radio and television; and as reporters, editors and photographers at newspapers and magazines.</p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p">ADMISSION</p>
				<p class="title-1">College Admission</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The entrance requirements for the College of Journalism and Mass Communications are the same as the admission requirements for the University of Nebraska–Lincoln.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">These include: </p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">English (4 units)</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Mathematics (4 units)</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Social studies (3 units)</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Natural sciences (3 units), and</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Foreign language (2 units). </li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text">One unit equals one year of high school credit. Students with one deficiency, two deficiencies but not in the same category, or two deficiencies in foreign language who receive a Deferred Admission or Admission by Review, may be considered for admission to the college. Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL. These conditions are explained under Admission to the University, Removal of Deficiencies. High school deficiencies must be removed during the first 30 credit hours of enrollment at UNL (60 hours for foreign language) or the first calendar year, whichever takes longer.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Admission Deficiency Information </p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">The college’s policy regarding acceptance of credit for courses taken to remove admission deficiencies is that those credit hours will count toward ACE and elective credit (Group L of the non-major requirements) only.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2">Admission GPA</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Any student transferring into the college must have at least a 2.0 GPA. A student with 12 or more hours of college credit must have at least a 2.0 GPA to be admitted or readmitted to the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</p>
				<p class="title-2">Readmission</p>
				<p class="basic-text">A student who left the University not in good standing (below a 2.0 grade point average), may be readmitted in the Division of General Studies. Such a student would be eligible to reenter the College of Journalism and Mass Communications upon attaining a 2.0 cumulative GPA. This student would follow the bulletin in effect at the time of the transfer from General Studies to the college.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">Other Admission Requirements</p>
				<p class="title-2">Students from Other Colleges </p>
				<p class="basic-text">College of Journalism and Mass Communications courses will be restricted to College of Journalism and Mass Communications majors except where stipulated differently. Students from colleges and departments with a written agreement with the College of Journalism and Mass Communications will be exempt from this policy. Permission may be granted by the dean of the College of Journalism and Mass Communications in special circumstances following the directives provided by the faculty in these matters.</p>
				<p class="title-2">ESL Students</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Applicants who speak English as a second language must present a TOEFL score of 600 or higher. Additionally, broadcasting majors must present a score of at least 45 on the Test of Spoken English.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADVISING</p>
				<p class="title-1">Academic Advising</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Upon enrollment in the college, each student is assigned to a faculty adviser. The student is expected to consult with his or her adviser each semester before registering for the next semester’s courses.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Although the faculty advisers seek to assist students in the selection of courses leading toward graduation, the final decision regarding which courses are taken is ultimately the student’s. Therefore, students are responsible for identifying and enrolling in those courses that will lead to completion of all published degree requirements.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">In addition, each first-year student and each senior should see the college’s advising coordinator, 105 Andersen Hall, to make sure all college and university requirements are completed.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</p>
				<p class="title-1">Course Exclusions &amp; Restrictions</p>
				<p class="title-2">Course Exclusions</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Courses from the following areas will not count toward the bachelor of journalism degree.</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">athletic coaching (ATHC)</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">athletic training (ATHT)</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">health education (NUTR), first aid or emergency healthcare</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">agricultural leadership, education and communication (ALEC) <span class="list-ital">(except ALEC 102, ALEC 207, and ALEC 417)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1">vocational and adult education courses, business education courses student assistantships, teaching assistantships, proctoring, or grading internships of a journalistic nature taken through any university unit or department</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">any independent study course, clinical course, experiential course or practicum outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications undertaken without the prior written approval of the student’s adviser</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">driver training education</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">industrial arts <span class="list-ital">(including courses concerned primarily with manual skills, tools, machines, or industrial processes and design)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1">orientation courses, such as UNL’s ALEC 397E and ALEC 397K <span class="list-ital">(neither course is applicable to the courses numbered above 299 requirement)</span>; ASCI 107; BIOC 101; BIOS 150, 160; EDPS 150; FDST 107; HRFS 183; NRES 101, NUTR 150; PSYC 100, PSYC 150; TEAC 210; VBMS 101</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">math courses below 100 and MATH 100A</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">course on word processing and graphics</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">EDPS 327 <span class="list-ital">(except EDPS 189H, EDPS 250, EDPS 251, EDPS 362, EDPS 457, and EDPS 459)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1">BSAD 150 or CSCE 137 or AGRI 271</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2">Course Restrictions</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Credit toward the degree may be earned in only one course, including honors sections, from each group of courses listed below:</p>
				<p class="list-indent">BIOS 312 or AGRO 360</p>
				<p class="list-indent">BIOS 313 or BIOS 314</p>
				<p class="list-indent">CHEM 105, CHEM 109, CHEM 111, CHEM 113, CHEM 195</p>
				<p class="list-indent">CHEM 116 or CHEM 221</p>
				<p class="list-indent">CHEM 251 and more than 1 cr of CHEM 263</p>
				<p class="list-indent">CHEM 471 or CHEM 481</p>
				<p class="list-indent">CSCE 252D or CSCE 150E</p>
				<p class="list-indent">CSCE 252D or ENGM 112</p>
				<p class="list-indent">CSCE 252D or ELEC 121</p>
				<p class="list-indent">CSCE 340 or CSCE 480</p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 210, or ECON 211 and ECON 212 </p>
				<p class="list-indent">ECON 215, CRIM 300, EDPS 459 or STAT 218</p>
				<p class="list-indent">FREN 201 and FREN 202, or FREN 210</p>
				<p class="list-indent">GEOL 100 or GEOL 101 or GEOL 101H</p>
				<p class="list-indent">GEOL 103 or GEOL 105</p>
				<p class="list-indent">GERM 201 and GERM 202, or GERM 210</p>
				<p class="list-indent">LATN 102 or LATN 201</p>
				<p class="list-indent">MATH 101 and/or MATH 102 or MATH 103</p>
				<p class="list-indent">MATH 104 or MATH 106</p>
				<p class="list-indent">MATH 200 or MATH 300</p>
				<p class="list-indent">MATH 201 or MATH 301</p>
				<p class="list-indent">MATH 340 or ENGM 480</p>
				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 141 or PHYS 151</p>
				<p class="list-indent">PHYS 151 or MSYM 109</p>
				<p class="list-indent">SOCI 205 or CRIM 251</p>
				<p class="list-indent">SOCI 209 or CRIM 355</p>
				<p class="list-indent">SOCI 311 or CRIM 337</p>
				<p class="list-indent">SOCI 474 or CRIM 413</p>
				<p class="list-indent">SPAN 201 and SPAN 202, or SPAN 210</p>
				<p class="title-1">Credit Rules</p>
				<p class="title-2">Credit by Examination</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Through study or experience that parallels a University of Nebraska-Lincoln course, a regularly enrolled university student may feel prepared to pass an examination on the course content for course credit. To apply for credit, a student should: </p>
				<p class="numbered-list">1. Pick up a credit-by-examination form at the Information Window, Office of Registration and Records, 107 Canfield Administration Building; </p>
				<p class="numbered-list">2. Secure the approval signature of the dean of the college; </p>
				<p class="numbered-list">3. Have the Credentials Office verify that he or she is currently enrolled; </p>
				<p class="numbered-list">4. Secure the Bursar’s Receipt for Payment of the examination fee; and </p>
				<p class="numbered-list">5. Present the completed form to the instructor designated by the dean’s office.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The instructor will then give the examination and report the results to the Office of Registration and Records through the dean of the college. A student is not permitted to receive credit by examination in a course that is a prerequisite for one in which he or she already has received credit.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The College of Journalism and Mass Communications also gives credit for the subject and general examinations of the College Level Examination Program (CLEP) administered by the College Entrance Examination Board. Inquire in 107 Canfield Administration Building for the current policy regarding CLEP examinations.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Grade Appeals</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The following is a synopsis of the College of Journalism and Mass Communications grade appeals policy. The policy is designed to provide students with protection through orderly procedures against prejudiced or capricious academic evaluation. A student with a concern about a grade should take the following steps:</p>
				<p class="basic-text">1. Talk with the instructor involved. Many problems are resolved at this level.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">2. Talk with an assistant or associate dean in 147 Andersen Hall.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">3. If the foregoing steps have not resulted in a solution, arrange to take the problem to the sequence grading appeals committee. This step involves presenting the problem in writing.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">4. If an appeal from the sequence committee is necessary, arrange to take the appeal to the College Grading Appeals Committee.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Student Recognition</p>
				<p class="title-2">Honors and Awards</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Outstanding students are honored each spring during an honors convocation. The college recognizes students whose cumulative grade point averages place them in the top 10 percent of their respective classes, students who hold scholarships and students who have earned special awards.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">In addition, the college distributes a semester dean’s list. To be included on the semester dean’s list, a student must have earned at least a 3.7 semester GPA on 12 or more graded hours.</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Kappa Tau Alpha.</span> The Will Owen Jones Chapter of Kappa Tau Alpha, the national journalism honorary, recognizes outstanding undergraduate and graduate students. Membership is limited to those in the top 10 percent of the junior and senior classes in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications who have completed the junior level professional courses. Each year the society honors a student achieving the highest four-year grade point average in the college and presents an award to the Distinguished Journalist of the Year.</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Alpha Delta Sigma.</span> As the only national honorary society for advertising students, ADS recognizes outstanding academic achievement. Since ADS was initiated in 1976, students nominated by their faculty advisers have been elected by division leaders into this exclusive scholastic group. An ADS chapter was founded at UNL in 1993. To be eligible for nomination, students must be enrolled in the local American Advertising Federation chapter (Ad Club).</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Alpha Epsilon Rho.</span> Alpha Epsilon Rho recognizes superior scholarship in the field of broadcasting. The University of Nebraska chapter was chartered in 1946. Membership is by invitation upon completion of 9 hours in broadcasting with a cumulative grade of 3.25 in broadcasting and 3.0 cumulative or above. For more information, contact the college office in 147 Andersen Hall.</p>
				<p class="title-2">Degrees With Distinction</p>
				<p class="basic-text">In recognition of academic excellence, the college recommends the bachelors degree with distinction, with high distinction and with highest distinction. To be recommended, candidates must fulfill the specific criteria as described below, in addition to meeting all the general criteria and procedures applicable to all distinction classifications. The thesis and results of the examination over the thesis in each instance must be acceptable to the advisory committee.</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Highest Distinction.</span> Candidates for the bachelors degree may be recommended for degrees with highest distinction on the basis of the following criteria: scholastic standing within the top 5 percent of the graduating class of the college in the preceding 12-month period and the advisory committee’s recommendation based upon a thesis or comparable creative effort and an oral examination over that thesis or creative effort.</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">High Distinction.</span> Candidates for the bachelors degree may be recommended for degrees with high distinction by fulfilling one of two sets of criteria: 1) by achieving scholastic standing within the top 5 percent of the graduating class of the college in the preceding 12-month period; or 2) by achieving scholastic standing within the top 10 percent of the graduating class of the college in the preceding 12-month period and by recommendation of the advisory committee based on a thesis or comparable creative effort and an oral examination over that thesis or creative effort.</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Distinction.</span> Candidates for the bachelors degree may be recommended for degrees with distinction by achieving one of two sets of criteria: 1) by achieving scholastic standing within the top 10 percent of the graduating class of the college in the preceding 12-month period; or 2) by achieving scholastic standing within the top 15 percent of the graduating class (never below a 3.7 GPA) of the college for the preceding 12-month period and by recommendation of the college’s advisory committee based upon a thesis or comparable creative effort and an oral examination over that thesis or creative effort.</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The following criteria apply to all categories:</span> Ordinarily, only students who have taken their last 48 hours of course work in residence will be considered for degrees with distinction. In considering individual cases, the advisory committee will review both grades and the program of courses. Students who choose one of the thesis options described above should make arrangements before their senior year by consulting with their academic advisers. These students must register for ADVT 499H or JOUR 499H for one hour of credit in the semester they plan to complete the thesis proposal and register for an additional two hours of credit in the semester they plan to complete the thesis. At least two members of the student’s honors thesis committee must make a recommendation to the advisory committee on the thesis work.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">During the semester before the student intends to graduate, she or he should visit the dean’s office in Andersen Hall to obtain the schedule of deadline dates for submission of reports of examining committees. The forms for making the reports are also available in the dean’s office.</p>
				<p class="title-2">Scholarships</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Each year the college awards more than 100 scholarships worth more than $178,000. Most scholarships go to upperclassmen, although a limited number are awarded to freshmen.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">College scholarship information is available on-line at the college’s Web site, www.unl.edu/journalism/students/undergrad/scholarships.shtml. The forms must be completed and returned to the dean’s office by March 1. Awards are made in April.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Entering freshmen must apply through the university’s Admissions Office in the Van Brunt Visitor Center, 313 N. 13th Street. Additional applications and letters of explanation may be sent to the college at the following address:</p>
				<p class="basic-text">College of Journalism and Mass Communications</p>
				<p class="basic-text">University of Nebraska–Lincoln</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Scholarship Committee</p>
				<p class="basic-text">147 Andersen Hall</p>
				<p class="basic-text">PO Box 880443</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Lincoln, NE 68588-0443</p>
				<p class="title-1">Senior Check/Degree Audit</p>
				<p class="basic-text">It is no longer necessary to request a “senior check.” Graduation Services, 109 Canfield Administration Building, automatically mails a letter and degree audit to each senior to identify any unfulfilled requirements in the student’s academic program.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">With each term’s registration, students should determine how course selections apply to requirements by obtaining a degree audit, available at the MyRED link on http://www.unl.edu.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Students should print their degree audits and take them to the meetings with their advisers. Because the Web-based degree audit system loads overnight, one can examine a new audit no sooner than one day after registering for classes.</p>
				<p class="title-2">Application for Degree</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Each student who expects to receive a diploma must file an application for candidacy for the diploma and pay a $25 fee to Graduation Services, 109 Canfield Administration Building. Announcements about deadline dates are published and posted on bulletin boards around campus.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Students are responsible for informing Graduation Services of their graduation plans, including their addresses, the manner in which they are completing their requirements, such as by correspondence, by clearance of incompletes, by enrollment at another institution, by taking special examinations, etc., and of any later revision of such plans. Failure to follow this procedure may cause postponement of graduation until a later semester.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The first semester during which the transcript indicates a student is a journalism major establishes the semester in which he or she is considered to have entered the college.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Student Standing/Classification</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Sophomore Standing.</span> For admission to sophomore standing a student must have completed a minimum of 27 semester hours of credit and attained a total grade point average of at least C.</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Junior Standing.</span> A student has junior standing after meeting the requirements for sophomore standing and completing 53 semester hours of credit.</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Senior Standing.</span> A student has senior standing after meeting the requirements for junior standing and completing 89 semester hours of credit.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Waivers/Substitutions</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The college will allow no waivers for graduation requirements. If students think they have met the intent of a particular requirement in some other fashion, they may submit a substitution request form.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The form requires students to justify the request and secure recommendations from their advisers. Students must submit completed requests, with appropriate recommendations, to the dean’s office no later than two working days prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the College Executive Committee. Decisions to grant or deny requests will be made by that committee or a designated subcommittee; appeals will go to the full faculty.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Students must remember that it is their responsibility to know and follow the graduation requirements of the college. A substitution request should come only after all other avenues of advising and course work have been exhausted.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The faculty will consider only substitutions. Under no circumstances will requirements be waived. A substitution shall be defined as:</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">1. The replacement of a required course by a course of very similar content.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">2. Credit by examination when offered.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">3. The replacement of a required course with significant professional experience. This will be allowed only in rare instances. The experience will substitute only for course content, not for credit hours. Additional credit hours may be needed to maintain minimum credit hour requirements for graduation.</p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p">ACE REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="basic-text">All students must fulfill the Achievement Centered Education (ACE) requirements. Information about the ACE program may be viewed at ace.unl.edu.</p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p">BULLETIN TO USE</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Students who left the university in good standing may be readmitted in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications, and they may choose the bulletin under which they wish to graduate according to the following guidelines:</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">1. Students must fulfill the requirements stated in the Undergraduate Bulletin for the year they enter the College of Journalism and Mass Communications or in any subsequent bulletin published while they are enrolled in the college.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">2. A student must, however, meet the requirements from one bulletin only rather than choosing a portion from one bulletin and the remainder from another.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">3. No returning student may use a bulletin that is 10 years old or older. In addition, any student seeking graduation credit for a College of Journalism and Mass Communications course taken more than 10 years prior to graduation must demonstrate mastery of the material currently included in that course at the proficiency level satisfactory to the college’s advisory committee and one or more faculty members qualified to teach the course in question. Students unable to demonstrate satisfactory mastery of the course material will be required to repeat the original course or a corresponding contemporary course designated by the college’s advisory committee, if the original course is no longer offered.</p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p">COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1">College General Education Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text">To graduate with a bachelor of journalism degree, students must complete requirements from the following areas: </p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">the University ACE requirements</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">the requirements for a major offered by the college </li>
					<li class="bullet-1">the non-major requirements that are specific to the college</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1">College Non-Major Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The College non-major requirements (NMR) are designed to further the purposes of liberal education by encouraging study in several different areas. Courses satisfying these requirements may impart specialized knowledge or broadly connect the subject matter to other areas of knowledge. </p>
				<p class="basic-text">Students may use ACE courses (except for ACE 3 courses) to satisfy the College non-major requirements. Independent study courses and internships cannot be used to satisfy requirements A-G.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The College of Journalism and Mass Communications requires all students to complete the following specific course requirements. Many of these may also count toward ACE outcomes:</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">A. Six hours from ACE outcome 1. At least three hours must be from ENGL 101, ENGL 150, ENGL 151 or ENGL 254.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">B. Ten hours from natural, physical and mathematical sciences: Choose from two different departments, including at least one course from the natural or physical sciences. Select from: biochemistry, biological sciences, chemistry, computer science and engineering, geosciences, mathematics, physics and astronomy, and statistics.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">C. Complete a lab for a natural or physical science course above. Lab courses may be selected from biochemistry, biological sciences, chemistry, geosciences, physics and astronomy, geography, and anthropology*. </p>
				<p class="asterisk">* See degree audit for approved geography and anthropology lab courses.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">D. Six hours from economics (ECON). See ACE 6 and ACE 8 for overlapping options.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">E. Three hours from political science (POLS).</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">F. Nine hours from history (HIST). See ACE 5 and ACE 9 for overlapping options.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">G. Nine hours from humanities department(s) other than history. Select from classics, English (film or literature, not writing), modern languages and literatures, philosophy, and religious studies.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">H. LIBR 110, 1 credit hour–waived for transfer students with 27 or more hours.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">I. Candidates for the bachelor of journalism degree must abide by the Accrediting Council on Education in Journalism and Mass Communication accrediting guidelines, which require 65 semester hours taken in subjects listed as traditional liberal arts and sciences by the University. See the degree audit for a list of the areas currently considered liberal arts. </p>
				<p class="numbered-list">J. Languages—Classical and Modern: 0-6 hours <br />Fulfilled by the completion of 6 credit hours at the 200 level or above in a single foreign language in one of the following departments: classics and religious studies, modern languages and literatures, or anthropology. Instruction is currently available in Biblical Hebrew, Chinese, Czech, French, German, Greek, Japanese, Latin, Omaha, Russian, and Spanish. A student who has completed the fourth-year level of one foreign language in high school is exempt from the languages requirement.</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Options for completion of language requirement:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list">1. Regular four-semester sequence: 101, 102, 201, and 202 (5, 5, 3, 3 hours for a total of 16)</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">2. Three-semester sequence: 101, 102, and 210 (5, 5, 6 hours for a total of 16)</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">3. 101, 102 fall and spring semesters; 201, 202 summer sessions (5, 5, 3, 3 hours for a total of 16). This and the option below constitute the only possibilities to finish the complete requirement in one year.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">4. (For Spanish) 101, 102 at UNL; 201, 202 at Monterrey Summer Institute (6 hours). (5, 5, 6 hours for a total of 16.) One six-week summer session (1st summer session). See modern languages non-majors adviser for information and application.</p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent">Students who have taken three years or fewer of a foreign language in high school should contact the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures for recommended placement.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">A student who achieves a specified scaled score in the College Level Examination Program (CLEP) subject exam in French, German and Spanish, levels 1 and 2, may be exempted from the language requirement and may also receive credit for the fourth semester course in the language. Students wishing to exercise this option must receive permission from the dean of the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">A transfer student with 11 or 12 semester hours of accepted credit in a single foreign language has two choices: a) to complete 201 and 202 in the same language; or b) to enroll in 202 with permission of the chair of the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">A student from a foreign country who has demonstrated acceptable proficiency in his or her native language (other than English) is exempted from the foreign language requirement without credit toward the degree. United States citizens who present acceptable evidence that their second language is English are exempted from the language requirement without credit toward the degree. All such students should see the dean of the College of Journalism and Mass Communications for this exemption.</p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> Language courses numbered 201, 202 or 210 apply to the Group J Foreign Language requirement and to Group I. Language courses numbered in the 100s apply only to Group L. </p>
				<p class="numbered-list">K. Students also must choose courses that will produce three 12-hour concentrations or one 24-hour concentration and one 12-hour concentration. A concentration is defined as 12 ours from the same department with no more than 6 100-level hours. A specified minor may take the place of one 12-hour concentration. A major of 24 or more hours may take the place of a 24-hour concentration. At least one of these options must be from one of the liberal arts departments, and all of these options must be from outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.<br /> The College recognizes cross-listed courses as equivalent for the purposes of degree requirements. However, a course taken under one department that is cross-listed cannot be applied in all the majors and minors affected by all the cross-listings of the course until at least 36 hours of course work have been recorded in the concentration requirement. Once 36 discrete hours are applied to Group K, courses may count in more than one concentration. Hybrid concentrations in fine arts and business are shown in the separate major pages.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">L. The Accrediting Council on Education in Journalism and Mass Communication additionally requires that students complete at least 80 semester hours in courses outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.<br /> Students graduating with 125 hours can take no more than 45 hours in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications. <br /> Students needing 130 hours to graduate can take no more than 50 hours in College of Journalism and Mass Communication courses. Students wanting to take more than 45 or 50 hours in the college should note that any hours over the 45- or 50-hour limit will be in addition to the hours required to graduate.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">M. At least 30 of the 125 (or 130) semester hours of credit must be in courses numbered above 299. <span class="faculty-list-bold">NOTE:</span> ALEC 397E and ALEC 397K do not count toward these 30 hours.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Minimum Hours Required for Graduation </p>
				<p class="basic-text">A minimum of 125 semester hours of credit is required for graduation from the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Students who enter the college with fewer than two units of a single foreign language from high school are required to take 130 semester hours as a minimum for the bachelor of journalism degree.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
				<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades </p>
				<p class="basic-text">The college will accept no more than 15 semester hours of grades less than a C from any program outside the University of Nebraska system. No grades less than a C will count toward a major, a minor, or concentration.</p>
				<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The college will accept up to 24 hours of Pass/No Pass courses toward a bachelor of journalism degree, subject to the following limits. </p>
				<p class="basic-text">All courses in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications must be taken for grade only. No journalism course may be taken Pass/No Pass. This applies to both majors and non-majors.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The Pass/No Pass (P/N) option is designed to be used by students seeking to expand their intellectual horizons by taking courses in areas where they may have minimum preparation without adversely affecting a student’s grade point average.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">1. Neither a P (pass) nor an N (no pass) contributes to a student’s GPA.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">2. P (pass) is interpreted to mean a grade of C or better. A student who earns a C- or lower will receive a grade of N.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">3. P/N is not available to students on academic probation unless the course is offered only that way.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">4. For undergraduates, the 24-hour college limit shall apply. This limit does not include courses offered on a Pass/No Pass only basis or AP credit. This limit does apply to transfer courses from UNO, UNK, UNMC, and other institutions.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">5. P/N hours can count toward fulfillment of group requirements, including concentrations, up to the 24 credit hour maximum. No journalism major may take a journalism course Pass/No Pass.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">6. Students may change from graded to P/N only until half way through the course. Additionally, after the half-way date, a student registered for P/N cannot change to graded unless the P/N registration is in conflict with a professor, department, college, or university policy governing P/N. Changing from graded to P/N or from P/N to graded can be completed on MyRED or by filing a drop/add form with the Office of Registration and Records, 107 Canfield Administration Building, and needs no instructor’s approval.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Transfer Credit Rules</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The goal of the following policy is to ensure that students from other campuses meet the same standards required of students who take all their courses at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln’s College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The college will accept up to 6 hours in journalism and mass communications courses taken at institutions that do not have an accredited journalism and mass communications program. Students must take the remainder of the required hours in journalism courses on campus at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. In advertising, these courses must include 460 and 489 and in broadcasting, 370 and 372 or 360 and 362. In news-editorial, the courses must include 302 and one selected from the following: JOUR 303, JOUR 404, or a 400-level writing course. Students from ACEJMC-accredited programs may request equivalency reviews of the required courses at those schools. Degree candidates must accumulate 80 credit hours of non-journalism classes, 65 of those in disciplines listed as liberal arts.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Credit for courses taken at foreign universities and colleges will be transferred only after evaluation by the appropriate professor in the major. This evaluation may include examination of the student over subject matter studied at the foreign institution. </p>
				<p class="basic-text">Normally, credit is not given for pre-university work. In some instances, it may be possible to receive credit through satisfactory examination.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Residency</p>
				<p class="basic-text">At least 30 of the last 36 hours of credit needed for the degree must be registered for and completed while the student is enrolled in the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. This means the last year of the student’s work must be spent in residence. To encourage participation in international study, the college accepts all study-abroad hours as hours in residence.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">DEGREES &amp; MAJORS</p>
				<p class="title-1">Bachelor of Journalism Degree Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text">A minimum of 125 semester hours of credit is required for graduation from the College of Journalism and Mass Communications. A student who enters with fewer than two years of the same high school foreign language must complete 130 hours. </p>
				<p class="basic-text">A maximum of 12 hours of military science (MLSC), naval science (NAVS), and aerospace studies (AERO) may be counted toward the degree.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">A maximum of 4 hours of practice courses in varsity sports and recreational activity courses (ATHP, COMB, FITN, INDV, ODED and RACS) or Basic Military Science, which is credit for active military duty, not ROTC course work.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">A maximum of 15 hours of applied study, defined as courses including “performance, practice or skills” in their titles or course descriptions. This limitation on fine arts, communication studies and other areas outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications does not apply to students completing designated majors or minors in those areas. This means that a student who has declared a designated major or minor or concentration in any of these areas has no performance limit applied to the degree audit.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Majors</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The major is 35 hours in advertising, 35 hours in broadcasting and 35 hours in news-editorial.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Students must choose at least one of three undergraduate majors—advertising, broadcasting, or news-editorial. Each of these majors requires professional courses for students. Additionally, all students must take the core courses–JOUR 101, JOUR 142, JOUR 486, and JOUR 487.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Students may complete two majors in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications by completing all requirements for each major; however, the second major in the college will not take the place of a 24-hour concentration.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Intercollege Studies</p>
				<p class="basic-text">A student in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications pursuing a bachelor of journalism degree may also complete a second major in the College of Arts and Sciences as part of a four-year program. In addition to ACE and College of Journalism and Mass Communications requirements, students will be expected to meet all College of Arts and Sciences distribution requirements and major requirements. Because students choosing this option will not be earning a degree from Arts and Sciences, they will not be eligible for Arts and Sciences-based scholarships and aid, but they will be eligible for consideration for Phi Beta Kappa.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">A student who prefers to receive the second degree would file for dual matriculation. Such a student would complete an additional 30 hours as part of earning the second degree.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">JGEN courses, which are open to students from any college, do not count in any College of Journalism and Mass Communications major. Non-College of Journalism and Mass Communications students must have permission to enroll in any ADVT, BRDC, or JOUR courses. Permission generally is reserved for students whose colleges have agreements with the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">GRADUATE STUDENT INFORMATION</p>
				<p class="title-1">Graduate Courses</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Seniors in the University who have obtained in advance the approval of the dean for Graduate Studies may receive up to 12 credit hours for graduate courses taken in addition to the courses necessary to complete their undergraduate work, provided that such credits are earned within the calendar year prior to receipt of the baccalaureate. For procedures, inquire at the Office of Graduate Studies.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Course work taken prior to receipt of the baccalaureate may not always be accepted for transfer to other institutions as graduate work.</p>
				<p class="title-1">The Graduate Program</p>
				<p class="basic-text">A graduate program, leading to the master of arts degree, was established in 1975. It is designed to prepare the student to translate more effectively to mass audiences the complexities of a rapidly changing society. Emphasis may be placed on advertising, broadcasting or news-editorial journalism. Students entering the program must have the equivalent of an undergraduate major in an accredited program in journalism and mass communications or extensive professional experience. Students also can earn a masters degree in journalism in an interdisciplinary program that includes advertising, marketing and communication studies. Persons seeking more information about graduate study in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications should consult the graduate bulletin or call or write the Gilbert M. and Martha H. Hitchcock Center for Graduate Study and Professional Journalism, 127 Andersen Hall, (402) 472-3042, or visit the college’s Web site.</p>
				<p class="title-2">Hitchcock Center for Graduate Study and Professional Journalism Development</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The Hitchcock Center, with a $250,000 endowment from the Gilbert M. and Martha H. Hitchcock Foundation, helps finance the graduate program in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications and further develops the skills of Nebraska’s professional journalists. It accomplishes the latter goal by giving direct support to the state’s professional journalists through research projects and statewide workshops aimed at improving skills in newswriting, advertising and broadcasting. The center also funds a $5,000 graduate fellowship and a distinguished faculty chair. Gilbert M. Hitchcock was a United States senator from Nebraska and founder of the <span class="basic-text-ital">Omaha World-Herald</span>.</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
