<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>Division_of_General_Studies</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="division-of-general-studies">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name">Division of General Studies</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION </p>				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">A Program of the Office of Undergraduate Studies</span></p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chief Adviser:</span> Jennifer Nelson</p>				<p class="basic-text">The Division of General Studies provides an academic home for UNL students who come to the campus uncertain about the field of study they wish to pursue. The Division of General Studies does not award degrees. While students are choosing their major, General Studies advisers assist students with course selection and degree planning. Advisers also help students identify UNL majors that match their interests. </p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who choose to begin their academic careers in General Studies have a variety of career interests and need time to make a decision regarding which college and major are most appropriate for them. Others have narrowed their choices to two or three options but want to explore these choices in greater depth before they make a firm commitment. Still other students have no idea what they want to major in or what career opportunities are available to them.</p>				<p class="basic-text">A fourth category is the student who has chosen a field of study (e.g., engineering or architecture) but needs preparatory work in order to meet the admission requirements of that program. All of these students will find the assistance they need by enrolling as General Studies students. </p>				<p class="basic-text">General Studies advisers cooperate with all eight undergraduate degree-granting colleges on campus as well as the UNO- and UNMC-based programs by providing general academic assistance to students wanting to explore different majors before making a decision about a particular college. One of the strengths of General Studies is its unique position with regard to academic advising. Professional advisers in the Division are qualified to advise students interested in any of the eight UNL undergraduate colleges. By working closely with all of the colleges and with other programs on campus, the adviser can help students design a general academic plan for one or more semesters that will allow them to progress toward a degree, while exploring the variety of opportunities offered by the University.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Since General Studies does not offer a degree program, most students are encouraged to transfer to one of the eight undergraduate colleges by the end of their freshman year. Some will transfer before that time while others may remain in General Studies longer if they have not met all of the admission requirements for their chosen college, such as a specific grade point average (GPA). Once they have chosen a college, it is in the best interest of students to transfer out of General Studies into that college without delay as it is important for them to make connections with faculty and staff in their academic program. </p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION </p>				<p class="title-1">Program Admission </p>				<p class="basic-text">Students who have met the overall University admission requirements established by the Board of Regents are eligible for admission to General Studies. The University admission requirements are outlined in detail on the Admissions site at http://admissions.unl.edu/.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Some UNL colleges have admission requirements in addition to the overall University admission requirements, and General Studies students will be advised accordingly as they choose the majors they would like to pursue in their chosen colleges.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Students desiring to transfer from other institutions and enroll in General Studies at UNL must have a cumulative grade point average of C (2.0 GPA on a 4.0 scale) or above. Students who do not meet this requirement may appeal their admission status to the Director of Admissions. </p>				<p class="title-1">Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies</p>				<p class="basic-text">General Studies students who enter the University with one or more course deficiencies (according to the 1997 Admissions Standards) must remove all deficiencies (except those in modern language) within their first 30 credit hours or their first twelve months of continuous enrollment, whichever takes longer. Deficiencies in modern language must be removed within the first 60 credit hours or the first twenty-four months of continuous enrollment, whichever takes longer. Students who enter the University with a math deficiency must take a math course their first semester in attendance and continue taking math until they have successfully removed the deficiency.</p>				<p class="basic-text">General Studies students who lack one or more of the high school units required for admission to any of the <span class="basic-text-bold">eight undergraduate colleges</span> will be advised of the procedure for removing the deficiency by their General Studies adviser. Most UNL colleges expect these deficiencies to be removed by the end of the first year at the University.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADVISING</p>				<p class="title-1">Academic Advising</p>				<p class="basic-text">General Studies does not assign students an academic adviser. Students may see any adviser in the Division. The office has daily walk-in hours (no appointment is necessary). Students should consult with their advisers frequently to discuss their academic program, career interests, course selections, specific college admission and graduation requirements, University procedures and policies and other matters of concern to them.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Since the General Studies advisers work closely with advisers in the eight undergraduate colleges on campus, a student will be able to take courses that meet several college requirements while deciding on a major. This opportunity allows the student to explore possible areas of interest before declaring a major.</p>				<p class="basic-text">Once a student has selected a major or college, the General Studies adviser will review the admission requirements with the student and outline the steps necessary to matriculate in the newly-selected major and college.</p>				<p class="title-1">Student Responsibility</p>				<p class="basic-text">General Studies students should meet with their academic adviser at least two times each semester. We encourage students to seek advisement whenever they have questions related to their academic major and or interests. </p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ACE REQUIREMENTS</p>				<p class="basic-text">All University of Nebraska students are required to complete general education courses. Students new to UNL must complete the Achievement-Centered Education requirements (ACE). See the ace.unl.edu Web site for details. </p>				<p class="basic-text">During their first year at UNL, students should also enroll in exploratory courses to help them identify majors of interest. Please refer to the Division of General Studies Web site (http://www.unl.edu/dgs) for an up-to-date list of exploratory courses (listed by major) . </p>				<p class="basic-text">Students should keep in mind that, in general, 100-level courses are for freshmen, 200-level courses for sophomores, 300-level courses for juniors, and 400-level courses for seniors.</p>				<p class="content-box-h-1">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</p>				<p class="title-1">Academic Load</p>				<p class="basic-text">General Studies students may enroll in a maximum of 18 credits in the fall and spring semesters. Students should refer to the Summer Schedule of Classes to determine the number of credits they may enroll in for each of the summer sessions. </p>				<p class="title-1">Grade Rules </p>				<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>				<p class="basic-text">General Studies students should always seek assistance from their adviser in determining whether they should take a course on the Pass/No Pass option. </p>				<p class="title-1">Student Recognition</p>				<p class="title-2">Dean’s List/Degrees with Distinction/Scholarships</p>				<p class="basic-text"> Students who complete at least 12 graded semester hours with a 3.60 GPA are eligible for the General Studies Honor Roll. </p>				<p class="title-1">Transfer Credit Rules</p>				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">General Studies does not offer a degree. Thus General Studies advisers do not make transfer evaluation decisions.</span> Students transferring into General Studies from outside the University of Nebraska system will need to present a transcript for admission. Courses on the transcript may be viewed as meeting the overall University requirements for admission, but the determination of which of these courses will meet graduation requirements in a specific college cannot be made until the student declares a specific major within one of the eight undergraduate degree-granting colleges. The General Studies adviser can provide a preliminary assessment of which specific courses may be accepted by each of the colleges. This assessment is done in cooperation with the colleges and is subject to their approval upon admission to their program.</p>				<p class="end">###</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>