<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">	<head>		<title>LIBR_College_page</title>		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />	</head>	<body>		<div id="libr-college-page">			<div class="story">				<p class="major-name">University Libraries</p>			</div>			<div class="story">				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Dean of Libraries: Joan Giesecke</span></p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Dean:</span> Nancy Busch</p>				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Dean:</span> Elaine Westbrooks</p>				<p class="title-1">The Libraries</p>				<p class="basic-text">The University Libraries, comprised of Love Library and six branch libraries, is the single comprehensive research library in Nebraska. The Libraries Encore search interface offers access to a vast array of resources including electronic books, full-text journal articles, and online archival material. Libraries services include in-person, telephone, and online reference and research assistance, specialized subject area research assistance, and interlibrary loan and document delivery services.</p>				<p class="header-paragraph">For further information, please consult the Libraries’ main page:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Main Libraries page: http://iris.unl.edu/</li>					<li class="bullet-1">What’s New: http://www.unl.edu/libr/news/</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Encore: http://encore.unl.edu/iii/encore/home?lang=eng</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Librarian Subject Specialties: http://www.unl.edu/libr/liaison/subjsubj.shtml</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-2">Courses of Instruction</p>				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">LIBR 110. Introduction to Library Research</span> (1 cr) A seven-week independent learning course.</p>				<p class="basic-text">The course provides the skills necessary for doing college-level research:</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Identifying various information types and when to use them</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Developing strong search strategies</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Recognizing and avoiding plagiarism</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Evaluating online and print information</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Utilizing the resources of a large academic library</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-2">Course of Instruction</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Students are recommended to take Library 110 in their first or second year</li>					<li class="bullet-1">Designed to support the research activities done for other UNL courses</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-2">Grading</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">Course is Pass/No Pass</li>					<li class="bullet-1">P (Pass) is interpreted to mean a grade of C or better. </li>					<li class="bullet-1">A student who earns a C- or lower will receive a grade of N.</li>				</ul>				<p class="title-2">Grading Appeals</p>				<ul>					<li class="bullet-1">A student who feels s/he has been unfairly graded may take the following sequential steps:</li>				</ul>				<p class="numbered-list">1. Talk with the course instructor.</p>				<p class="numbered-list">2. Talk with the instructor’s department chair.</p>			</div>		</div>	</body></html>