<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Admissions.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="admissions">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Admissions</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ASSURED ADMISSION</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>First-time students who graduate from an accredited high school, have successfully demonstrated competency in the required five subject areas, and meet minimum performance requirements are assured admission to the University. These five subject areas are English, mathematics, natural sciences, social studies, and foreign language. Successful completion of a minimum of 16 core course requirements, either at the secondary school level or at the college level, is typically used to demonstrate competency. Performance requirements for freshmen include an ACT composite score of 20 or higher, or an SAT combined score of 950 or higher, or a high school class rank in the upper one-half of the graduating class. Several UNL undergraduate colleges require higher performance for admission into specific academic programs. See the college sections in this bulletin for more specific information about requirements. Prospective transfer students are also expected to demonstrate competency in the core course requirements, as well as have a cumulative grade point average of at least a C average (2.0 on a 4.0 scale) and at least a C average in the last semester of college enrollment. Several UNL undergraduate colleges require higher grade point averages for transferring into specific academic programs. See the college sections in this bulletin for more specific information about transfer requirements.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DEFICIENCIES</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Because admission requirements establish the level of knowledge and skills which are needed for a student to succeed at UNL, students who are admitted with core course deficiencies in foreign language and geometry are expected to quickly remove them. Deficiencies must be removed before a student is eligible for graduation.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
