<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Naval Science/Naval ROTC.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="naval-science-naval-rotc">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name">Naval Science/Naval ROTC</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="content-box-h-1" >Description</p>
			<p class="list-indent">Chair: CAPT Richard Thomas</p>
			<p class="list-indent">103 Pershing Military and Naval Science Building</p>
			<p class="list-indent">http://www.unl.edu/nrotc/</p>
			<p class="basic-text">The Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps (NROTC) is a competitive program designed for the purpose of educating men and women for service as commissioned officers in the United States Navy and Marine Corps. Students accepted into the program receive training and experience in the one quality that will always be in great demand: Leadership. Upon commissioning, University of Nebraska NROTC graduates serve in such diverse fields as aviation, surface warfare, submarine warfare, nursing, and as United States Marines.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1">Benefits</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Navy NROTC Midshipmen may receive a national scholarship covering full tuition and fees, a stipend for books, and a monthly stipend to help cover living expenses. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">There is also a non-scholarship program for students who did not initially qualify for a national scholarship but are interested in a career in the United States Navy or United States Marine Corps; they compete for other scholarships or must earn a scholarship by the end of their academic sophomore year. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">All NROTC students receive their full uniform at no cost.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">For information on financial assistance, Navy and Marine Corps ROTC Scholarships, and general information about the UNL Naval ROTC program, visit http://www.unl.edu/nrotc/.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="content-box-h-1">Curriculum</p>
			<p class="title-3">Four-Year Scholarship Program</p>
			<p class="basic-text">Four-Year NROTC scholarships are awarded annually based on a competitive selection process in which consideration is given to factors such as high school record, college board scores, extracurricular activities, and leadership qualities. The primary applicant to this program is a high school senior, but college freshman may also qualify.</p>
			<p class="title-3">Three-Year Scholarship Program</p>
			<p class="basic-text">During their freshman year at UNL, students may apply for the national scholarship. It is recommended that students interested in this possibility enroll in NAVS classes and participate in battalion activities.</p>
			<p class="title-3">Two-Year Scholarship Program</p>
			<p class="basic-text">Two-Year NROTC scholarships are awarded to current students that are approaching their junior year. Consideration is given to factors such as performance in college and leadership potential. Recipients of this scholarship may attend a six-week naval indoctrination program in Rhode Island the summer before their junior year.</p>
			<p class="title-3">College Program</p>
			<p class="basic-text">The College Program is a non-scholarship program designed for students who did not qualify for an ROTC Scholarship. Students in the College Program are fully integrated in the NROTC program and qualify for the same careers in the Navy and Marine Corps upon graduation. There is also opportunity for College Program students to compete for NROTC scholarships after one or more semesters of exemplary performance. </p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1">Naval Science Open Curriculum</p>
			<p class="basic-text">Any University of Nebraska–Lincoln student may take naval science academic courses for college credit. However, enrollment in leadership laboratories is restricted to students who are accepted into the NROTC program. No active duty obligation is incurred.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1">Individualized Program of Studies in Naval Science</p>
			<p class="basic-text">It is possible to minor in naval science under the Individualized Program of Studies program in the College of Arts and Sciences. All College of Arts and Sciences students interested in the naval science major are eligible.</p>
			<p class="basic-text">An individualized studies minor requires 24 credit hours, including 9 in one department and 12 within the College of Arts and Sciences. Approval of the program of studies must be obtained from the student’s arts and sciences adviser and endorsed by a representative of the dean of the College of Arts and Sciences.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> Although students may take additional naval science courses beyond the 12-credit-hour maximum, credits received in these courses will not count toward a degree in the College of Arts and Sciences.</p>
			<p class="basic-text">Students enrolled in the NROTC program must take 23 credits in naval science subjects to earn a commission and should schedule all required classes prior to asking their College of Arts and Sciences adviser for approval of the Individualized Program of Studies.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
