<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>The Libraries</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="the-libraries">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name">The Libraries</p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="content-box-h-1">Description</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Nancy Busch, Ph.D., Dean of Libraries and Professor</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list">TBA, Associate Dean</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The University Libraries, comprised of Love Library and six branch libraries, is the only comprehensive research library in Nebraska. In the branches, students will find specialized collections on subjects such as: architecture, engineering, geology, mathematics, and music. Agricultural materials can be found at the C.Y. Thompson Library on the East Campus. Love Library, the six branch libraries, and the Marvin and Virginia Schmid Law Library, offer both in-house and remote access to a robust set of on-line information services. The Libraries Encore search interface offers access to a vast array of resources including electronic books, full-text journal articles, and online archival material. Library services include in-person, telephone, and online reference and research assistance, specialized subject area research assistance, and interlibrary loan and document delivery services. C.Y. Thompson and Love Library have wireless networking, and laptop computers are available for check out. Computer labs are located in Love and C.Y. Thompson Libraries.</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph">For further information, please consult the Libraries’ main page:</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullets">Main Libraries page: http://libraries.unl.edu</li>
					<li class="bullets">Encore: http://libraries.unl.edu</li>
					<li class="bullets">Librarian Subject Specialties: http://libraries.unl.edu/subjspecialists</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">Courses of Instruction</p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">LIBR 110. Introduction to Library Research</span> (1 cr) A seven-week independent learning course.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The course provides the skills necessary for doing college-level research:</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullets">Identifying various information types and when to use them</li>
					<li class="bullets">Developing strong search strategies</li>
					<li class="bullets">Recognizing and avoiding plagiarism</li>
					<li class="bullets">Evaluating online and print information</li>
					<li class="bullets">Utilizing the resources of a large academic library</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3">Course of Instruction</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullets">Students should take Library 110 in their first or second year</li>
					<li class="bullets">Designed to support the research activities done for other UNL courses</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2">Grading</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullets">Course is Pass/No Pass</li>
					<li class="bullets">P (Pass) is interpreted to mean a grade of C or better. </li>
					<li class="bullets">A student who earns a C- or lower will receive a grade of N.</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2">Grading Appeals</p>
				<p class="basic-text">A student who feels s/he has been unfairly graded may take the following sequential steps:</p>
				<ol>
					<li class="numbered-list">Talk with the course instructor.</li>
					<li class="numbered-list">Talk with the instructor’s department chair.</li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
