<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Transfer 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="transfer-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Transfer</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
<p class="content-box-h-1">UNDERGRADUATE TRANSFER CREDIT POLICY</p>
<p class="basic-text">This statement outlines important information for students who present undergraduate credit for transfer to a degree program at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. Transfer credit is any post-secondary credit earned at an institution outside the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, including other institutions in the University of Nebraska System (NCTA, UNK, UNO, and UNMC).</p>
<p class="basic-text">The college within the University of Nebraska–Lincoln in which a student enrolls (the degree college) has ultimate responsibility for determining how all credit, including transfer credit, will apply to a specific degree program. Evaluation of transfer credit is based on a review of the comparability of the nature, content and level of the learning experience and its appropriateness to the student’s degree program. The acceptance and use of transfer credit are subject to limitations in accordance with the educational policies of The University of Nebraska–Lincoln.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">TRANSFER CREDIT PRACTICES</p>
<p class="basic-text">The University of Nebraska–Lincoln endorses the Joint Statement on Transfer and Award of Academic Credit approved by the American Council on Education (ACE), the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers (AACRAO), and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA). The current issue of Transfer Credit Practices of Designated Educational Institutions, published by AACRAO is an example of a reference used in determining transfer credit.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Applicants must request an official transcript sent to the Office of Admissions from each college attended. Failure to provide transcripts from all colleges or universities attended may result in denial of the application or dismissal from the university. Grades from institutions outside the Universities in the NU System will be used for evaluation and admission, but will not become part of the University cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA). Each degree college determines its policy for acceptance and application of grades below C to degree requirements.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">A. CREDIT PRESENTED FOR TRANSFER FROM WITHIN THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA SYSTEM</p>
<p class="basic-text">Credit earned at any institution within the University of Nebraska System will be accepted by UNL. Applicability to degree requirements is determined by the student’s degree college. Direct course equivalencies with UNK, UNO and UNMC, established by faculty, are maintained by the NU System and are available on-line at http://coursefinder.nebraska.edu. Applicability of courses without direct equivalencies will be at the discretion of the degree college.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">B. INTER-INSTITUTIONAL AGREEMENTS</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Associate to Baccalaureate Agreements.</span> Agreements have been established for specific programs at selected community colleges.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Transfer courses equivalencies.</span> Direct equivalencies have been established by UNL faculty for courses from a number of institutions including Nebraska Community Colleges and Nebraska College of Technical Agriculture. Applicability of courses without direct equivalencies will be at the discretion of the degree college. Transfer Course Equivalency tables are available on-line at http://admissions.unl.edu/nebraska/equivalency. While every effort is made to ensure accuracy, this information is subject to change.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">C. CREDIT PRESENTED FOR TRANSFER WHICH REQUIRES ADDITIONAL REVIEW BY THE DEGREE COLLEGE</p>
<p class="basic-text">The following types of transfer credit require additional review by the student’s degree college within UNL to determine applicability to the student’s program of study.</p>
<ul>
<li class="bullet-1">Credit in courses presented for transfer which do not have a direct equivalent as established by UNL faculty.</li>
<li class="bullet-1">Credit in courses determined by University of Nebraska–Lincoln to be of a developmental, vocational, or technical nature.</li>
<li class="bullet-1">Credit in courses or programs in which the institution granting the credit is not directly involved.</li>
<li class="bullet-1">Credit presented for transfer from institutions not accredited by one of the regional accrediting commissions. (www.chea.org)</li>
<li class="bullet-1">In determining the acceptability of transfer credit from colleges which are not regionally accredited, acceptance practices indicated in the current issue of Transfer Credit Practices of Designated Educational Institutions, an AACRAO publication, will be used as a guide. For institutions not listed in the publication, guidance is requested from the designated reporting institution of the appropriate state.</li>
<li class="bullet-1">Credit presented for transfer from institutions outside the United States. Transfer credit from foreign educational institutions may be granted after a determination of the type of institution involved, its recognition by the educational authorities of the foreign country, and an evaluation of the content, level, and comparability of the study to courses and programs at University of Nebraska–Lincoln. Credit may be granted in specific courses or assigned to general areas of study. Questions about foreign credentials and educational systems should be directed to the Office of Admissions.</li>
</ul>
<p class="content-box-h-1">SPECIAL SITUATIONS, QUALIFICATIONS, AND LIMITATIONS RELATED TO TRANSFER OF CREDIT</p>
<p class="title-3">Applicability of transfer credit to degree requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">The student’s degree college within the University of Nebraska–Lincoln has ultimate responsibility for determining how all credit, including transfer credit, will apply to a specific degree program.</p>
<p class="title-3">Transfer credit from two-year or four-year institutions</p>
<p class="basic-text">No more than 60 semester or 90 quarter credits earned at two-year colleges can be applied to an undergraduate degree from University of Nebraska–Lincoln.</p><br/>
<p class="basic-text">No more than 90 total hours may transfer from all institutions to the University of Nebraska-Lincoln for a degree program. Please consult the appropriate college section of the undergraduate Bulletin for college specific policies regarding transfer credit.<br /></p>

<p class="title-3">Lower division credit</p>
<p class="basic-text">Lower division courses transferred to UNL will generally be used to meet lower division requirements. In the event that a lower division transfer course is used as a substitution for an upper division requirement at the university a student may be required to complete additional upper division hours for graduation.</p>
<p class="title-3">Residency requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">The University’s colleges may require that specific courses or a certain number of credit hours be completed on the UNL campus to satisfy the residency requirement.</p>
<p class="title-3">Dual Credit earned while a student is enrolled in high school</p>
<p class="basic-text">When a student earns both high school and college credit for a course, the student must present a transcript from the original postsecondary institution offering credit for the course. Such courses will be evaluated as transfer credit.</p>
<p class="title-3">Other credit earned while in high school</p>
<p class="basic-text">Many students enroll in one or more college courses while enrolled in high school. An official transcript of all courses attempted must be presented upon application unless the credit was earned at UNL. Credit from institutions outside the University of Nebraska–Lincoln will be evaluated as transfer credit</p>
<p class="title-3">Credit earned in the United States Armed Forces</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students with military service will be awarded 1 credit of military science for every three months of active duty up to a total of four credits. Credit for technical or specialized schools will be accepted to the extent that the material is applicable toward degree requirements at UNL.</p>
<p class="title-3">Credit by Examination (CBE)</p>
<p class="basic-text">Programs accepted at University of Nebraska–Lincoln include the Advanced Placement (AP) Program, the International Baccalaureate (IB) Examinations, the College Level Examination Program (CLEP), and departmental examinations. For information on specific exams and required scores accepted for credit at UNL see: http://admissions.unl.edu/advanced. Credit by Exam (AP, IB, or CLEP credit) may not be transferred directly to University of Nebraska–Lincoln from another institution. However, the scores from these examinations may be sent to University of Nebraska–Lincoln from the testing agency, and credit will be awarded based on UNL’s AP, IB, and CLEP policies.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who anticipate applying to professional programs should inquire about the acceptability of Credit by Exam before registering for exams.</p>
<p class="title-3">Credit by Departmental Examination</p>
<p class="basic-text">Credit by departmental examination allows regularly enrolled students to gain academic credit for knowledge they have acquired by self-study or experience. The student’s knowledge base is expected to parallel that of the specific UNL course for which the student wishes to gain credit. A fee of one-half of resident tuition is charged to administer and/or evaluate an examination for credit. Examinations for credit through UNL departments may be taken only by currently enrolled students. A student is not permitted to receive Credit by Examination in a course which is a prerequisite for a course already taken. Credit earned by examination is not applicable for use in an advanced degree program. Credit granted by another college for placement exams or locally designed test-out examinations will not be accepted in transfer.</p>
<p class="title-3">University of Nebraska–Lincoln students who earn credit at another institution</p>
<p class="basic-text">Current UNL students are urged to consult with the appropriate academic adviser before enrolling in any course intended to be applied to the student’s degree. Non-UNL credit for education abroad programs will be evaluated as transfer credit upon receipt of official transcripts. Current UNL students who wish to enroll in a course at another institution in the NU System should file an Intercampus Application, http://admissions.unl.edu/apply/intercampus.asp.</p>
<p class="title-3">University of Nebraska–Lincoln students who wish to transfer from one UNL college to another</p>
<p class="basic-text">Current UNL students seeking to gain admission to another degree college must meet all standards for admission to the new college as a transfer applicant. The new college will evaluate all of the student’s credit, including transfer credit, to determine which credit will be applicable to degree requirements.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>