<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>General Information Main Page.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="general-information-main-page">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="college-name" xml:lang='en-us'>General Information</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="content-box-m-p" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSIONS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Admission Categories</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Assured Admission</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>First-time students who graduate from an accredited high school, have successfully demonstrated competency in the required five subject areas, and meet minimum performance requirements are assured admission to the University. These five subject areas are English, mathematics, natural sciences, social studies, and foreign language. Successful completion of a minimum of 16 core course requirements, either at the secondary school level or at the college level, is typically used to demonstrate competency. Performance requirements for freshmen include an ACT composite score of 20 or higher, or an SAT combined score of 950 or higher, or a high school class rank in the upper one-half of the graduating class. Several UNL undergraduate colleges require higher performance for admission into specific academic programs. See the college sections in this bulletin for more specific information about requirements. Prospective transfer students are also expected to demonstrate competency in the core course requirements, as well as have a cumulative grade point average of at least a C average (2.0 on a 4.0 scale) and at least a C average in the last semester of college enrollment. Several UNL undergraduate colleges require higher grade point averages for transferring into specific academic programs. See the college sections in this bulletin for more specific information about transfer requirements.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Deficiencies</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Because admission requirements establish the level of knowledge and skills which are needed for a student to succeed at UNL, students who are admitted with core course deficiencies in foreign language and geometry are expected to quickly remove them. Deficiencies must be removed before a student is eligible for graduation.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Credit Hour Definition</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Academic units must follow the federal credit hour definition (please refer to http://policy.ncahlc.org/Federal-Regulation/assignment-of-credits-program-length-and-tuition.html): A credit hour is an amount of work represented in intended learning outcomes and verified by evidence of student achievement that is an institutionally established equivalency that reasonably approximates not less than</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. One hour of classroom or direct faculty instruction and a minimum of two hours of out of class student work each week for approximately fifteen weeks for one semester hour of credit, or the equivalent amount of work over a different amount of time; or</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. At least an equivalent amount of work as required in paragraph (1) of this definition for other academic activities as established by the institution including laboratory work, internships, practica, studio work, and other academic work leading to the award of credit hours.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Undergraduate Transfer Credit Policy</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This statement outlines important information for students who present undergraduate credit for transfer to a degree program at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. Transfer credit is any post-secondary credit earned at an institution outside the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, including other institutions in the University of Nebraska System (NCTA, UNK, UNO, and UNMC). </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The college within the University of Nebraska–Lincoln in which a student enrolls (the degree college) has ultimate responsibility for determining how all credit, including transfer credit, will apply to a specific degree program. Evaluation of transfer credit is based on a review of the comparability of the nature, content and level of the learning experience and its appropriateness to the student’s degree program. The acceptance and use of transfer credit are subject to limitations in accordance with the educational policies of The University of Nebraska–Lincoln. </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Transfer Credit Practices</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The University of Nebraska–Lincoln endorses the Joint Statement on Transfer and Award of Academic Credit approved by the American Council on Education (ACE), the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers (AACRAO), and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA). The current issue of Transfer Credit Practices of Designated Educational Institutions, published by AACRAO is an example of a reference used in determining transfer credit.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Applicants must request an official transcript sent to the Office of Admissions from each college attended. Failure to provide transcripts from all colleges or universities attended may result in denial of the application or dismissal from the university. Grades from institutions outside the Universities in the NU System will be used for evaluation and admission, but will not become part of the University cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA). Each degree college determines its policy for acceptance and application of grades below C to degree requirements.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>A. Credit presented for transfer from within the University of Nebraska System </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Credit earned at any institution within the University of Nebraska System will be accepted by UNL. Applicability to degree requirements is determined by the student’s degree college. Direct course equivalencies with UNK, UNO and UNMC, established by faculty, are maintained by the NU System and are available on-line at http://coursefinder.nebraska.edu. Applicability of courses without direct equivalencies will be at the discretion of the degree college. </p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>B. Inter-institutional Agreements</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Associate to Baccalaureate Agreements.</span> Agreements have been established for specific programs at selected community colleges. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Transfer courses equivalencies.</span> Direct equivalencies have been established by UNL faculty for courses from a number of institutions including Nebraska Community Colleges and Nebraska College of Technical Agriculture. Applicability of courses without direct equivalencies will be at the discretion of the degree college. Transfer Course Equivalency tables are available on-line at http://admissions.unl.edu/nebraska/equivalency. While every effort is made to ensure accuracy, this information is subject to change.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>C. Credit presented for transfer which requires additional review by the degree college.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The following types of transfer credit require additional review by the student’s degree college within UNL to determine applicability to the student’s program of study. </p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Credit in courses presented for transfer which do not have a direct equivalent as established by UNL faculty. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Credit in courses determined by University of Nebraska–Lincoln to be of a developmental, vocational, or technical nature.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Credit in courses or programs in which the institution granting the credit is not directly involved. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Credit presented for transfer from institutions not accredited by one of the regional accrediting commissions. (www.chea.org)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">In determining the acceptability of transfer credit from colleges which are not regionally accredited, acceptance practices indicated in the current issue of Transfer Credit Practices of Designated Educational Institutions, an AACRAO publication, will be used as a guide. For institutions not listed in the publication, guidance is requested from the designated reporting institution of the appropriate state.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Credit presented for transfer from institutions outside the United States. Transfer credit from foreign educational institutions may be granted after a determination of the type of institution involved, its recognition by the educational authorities of the foreign country, and an evaluation of the content, level, and comparability of the study to courses and programs at University of Nebraska–Lincoln. Credit may be granted in specific courses or assigned to general areas of study. Questions about foreign credentials and educational systems should be directed to the Office of Admissions.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Special Situations, Qualifications and Limitations related to Transfer of Credit</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Applicability of transfer credit to degree requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The student’s degree college within the University of Nebraska–Lincoln has ultimate responsibility for determining how all credit, including transfer credit, will apply to a specific degree program.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Transfer credit from two-year institutions</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>No more than 60 semester or 90 quarter credits earned at two-year colleges can be applied to an undergraduate degree from University of Nebraska–Lincoln.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Lower division credit</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Lower division courses transferred to UNL will generally be used to meet lower division requirements. In the event that a lower division transfer course is used as a substitution for an upper division requirement at the university a student may be required to complete additional upper division hours for graduation.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Residency requirement</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The University’s colleges may require that specific courses or a certain number of credit hours be completed on the UNL campus to satisfy the residency requirement.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Dual Credit earned while a student is enrolled in high school</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>When a student earns both high school and college credit for a course, the student must present a transcript from the original postsecondary institution offering credit for the course. Such courses will be evaluated as transfer credit. </p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Other credit earned while in high school</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Many students enroll in one or more college courses while enrolled in high school. An official transcript of all courses attempted must be presented upon application unless the credit was earned at UNL. Credit from institutions outside the University of Nebraska–Lincoln will be evaluated as transfer credit </p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Credit earned in the United States Armed Forces</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students with military service will be awarded 1 credit of military science for every three months of active duty up to a total of four credits. Credit for technical or specialized schools will be accepted to the extent that the material is applicable toward degree requirements at UNL.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Credit by Examination (CBE)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Programs accepted at University of Nebraska–Lincoln include the Advanced Placement (AP) Program, the International Baccalaureate (IB) Examinations, the College Level Examination Program (CLEP), and departmental examinations. For information on specific exams and required scores accepted for credit at UNL see: http://admissions.unl.edu/advanced. Credit by Exam (AP, IB, or CLEP credit) may not be transferred directly to University of Nebraska–Lincoln from another institution. However, the scores from these examinations may be sent to University of Nebraska–Lincoln from the testing agency, and credit will be awarded based on UNL’s AP, IB, and CLEP policies.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students who anticipate applying to professional programs should inquire about the acceptability of Credit by Exam before registering for exams. </p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Credit by Departmental Examination </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Credit by departmental examination allows regularly enrolled students to gain academic credit for knowledge they have acquired by self-study or experience. The student’s knowledge base is expected to parallel that of the specific UNL course for which the student wishes to gain credit. A fee of one-half of resident tuition is charged to administer and/or evaluate an examination for credit. Examinations for credit through UNL departments may be taken only by currently enrolled students. A student is not permitted to receive Credit by Examination in a course which is a prerequisite for a course already taken. Credit earned by examination is not applicable for use in an advanced degree program. Credit granted by another college for placement exams or locally designed test-out examinations will not be accepted in transfer. </p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>University of Nebraska–Lincoln students who earn credit at another institution</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Current UNL students are urged to consult with the appropriate academic adviser before enrolling in any course intended to be applied to the student’s degree. Non-UNL credit for education abroad programs will be evaluated as transfer credit upon receipt of official transcripts. Current UNL students who wish to enroll in a course at another institution in the NU System should file an Intercampus Application, http://admissions.unl.edu/apply/intercampus.asp.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>University of Nebraska–Lincoln students who wish to transfer from one UNL college to another</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Current UNL students seeking to gain admission to another degree college must meet all standards for admission to the new college as a transfer applicant. The new college will evaluate all of the student’s credit, including transfer credit, to determine which credit will be applicable to degree requirements. </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Academic Policies and Procedures</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Academic Adviser Assignment</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The University considers faculty contact with students essential to academic planning and University life. Undergraduate students are assigned academic advisers through the college or department in which they are majoring. Undergraduate students who have not yet decided upon a college will be referred to an academic adviser in the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Students Responsibilities in Academic Advising</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The University of Nebraska–Lincoln is committed to providing effective academic advising to students as an essential component of their educational experience.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Department and college advisers are assigned to students in their programs for assistance in assessing educational goals, planning programs of study, understanding program requirements, and following policies and procedures. Professional academic advisers in the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center provide these services to students who have not yet declared their undergraduate college or major.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students are ultimately responsible for fulfilling all the requirements of the curriculum in which they are enrolled. Students are also responsible for initiating advising contacts and preparing for advising sessions. The mentoring relationship between academic advisers and students is confidential and is strengthened by advisers listening with understanding to student concerns.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students are expected to take responsibility for a successful university experience and effective advising session by:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. Participating in New Student Enrollment and priority registration programs;</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Scheduling appointments with advisers well in advance of priority registration and at other times as needed;</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. Identifying class choices from requirements of the selected program or major;</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. Identifying questions to address in advising sessions;</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>5. Informing advisers of any special needs, deficiencies or barriers that might affect academic success;</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>6. Following academic policies and procedures and meeting academic calendar deadlines (e.g. registration, fee payment, senior check/degree audit, filing for degree, etc.);</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>7. Knowing and completing degree or program requirements;</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>8. Monitoring their progress toward meeting degree requirements by maintaining a copy of their academic records and seeking assistance to resolve any errors or questions; and</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>9. Acting on recommendations to seek assistance from the various student support services provided by the University.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Maximum Credit Hour Load</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Undergraduate students may register for up to 18 credit hours per semester, except for the College of Business Administration which allows a maximum of 19 credit hours and the College of Arts and Sciences and the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts which allow a student to register for up to 20 credit hours. Written permission from the college dean is required to exceed the credit hour per semester maximum and must be filed with an Override Authorization Form at the time of registration.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Class Attendance</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students are expected to attend all lectures, recitations, quizzes, and laboratories regularly. The University has no regulation which permits cutting classes.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students are responsible for the attendance policy set by instructors and should clear absences directly with them.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In cases where a student is unable to contact his or her instructors due to major illness, serious injury, or hospitalization or when given military orders which are effective immediately, a notice may be sent to the student’s instructors by the University Health Center, a family physician, or the Students Affairs Office, 106 Canfield Administration Building, 402-472-3755. This notice is for the instructor’s information only and does not relieve the student of contacting instructors as soon as possible.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students involved in University-sponsored activities, including intercollegiate athletics, may need to be excused from a class, lab, or studio meeting. In all instances it is the student’s responsibility to request permission for the absence (preferably in writing) from the instructor and to discuss how the absence will affect their ability to meet the course requirements. Students should do this as soon in the semester as possible. While instructors should seek to the greatest extent possible, consistent with course requirements, to make reasonable accommodation for a student involved in University-sponsored activities, students should recognize that not every course can accommodate absences and neither the absence (nor the notification of an absence) relieves them from meeting the course requirements.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>For complete information on class attendance, see the Schedule of Classes.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Glossary of Academic and Advising Terms</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Academic Adviser: </span>College staff member responsible for providing guidance in course and/or program-related topics including academic requirements; course schedules; personal, academic, or career information; and transition to college and academic progress.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Academic Term (semester):</span> Fall, spring, and summer weeks when classes are in session. The fall and spring semesters are approximately sixteen weeks long. The summer semester is between three to eight weeks long.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Academic Year:</span> The period composed of fall and spring semesters.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Advanced Placement Credit:</span> Credit awarded by UNL for appropriate scores on Advanced Placement Exams. http://admissions.unl.edu/discover/academics/advanced-credit/advanced-placement.aspx</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Bachelors Degree:</span> Recognition of successful completion of a program of studies (usually about 120-130 semester credits), often with a specific major, minor, or concentration (commonly referred to as bachelor of arts or bachelor of science, etc.). </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Blackboard/My.UNL:</span> A website that allows instructors to provide information on courses they are teaching available to their students. The information could include course syllabus, documents, discussion boards, etc. Some professors may use this site as a place to turn in assignments or complete exams. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Career Services:</span> Office that provides services relating to major exploration, career planning and placement. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Class Standing:</span> Based on credits earned 0-26 for freshmen; 27-52 for sophomores; 53-88 for juniors; 89 or more for seniors.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Course Description: </span>Prerequisites required for and the description of the main topics covered in a course. Can be found in the Undergraduate Bulletin: http://bulletin.unl.edu/undergraduate/.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Credit Hour:</span> A standard measure of the amount of instructional time required to successfully complete a course. For example, SOCI 101, Introduction to Sociology, is a 3 credit hour course, which means that it will meet for approximately three hours each week for one semester.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA):</span> A student’s grade point average for all University of Nebraska course work taken at Kearney, Lincoln and Omaha, based on the total number of quality points earned and the total number of semester hours attempted. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Corequisite:</span> A course that must be taken at the same time as another specified course. Common with sciences with a lab: BIOS 101 lecture must be taken with BIOS 101L lab component. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Course Sequence:</span> Entry level courses must be completed before taking higher level courses. Common course sequences are in math, languages, and sciences, but also apply to most disciplines. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Degree Plan:</span> An evaluation by the student and adviser of academic work completed and courses required for graduation.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Degree Audit/DARS:</span> An on-line program that tracks program requirements. This is located in MyRED. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Department:</span> Faculty and administrators associated with a particular discipline or program (the sociology department). </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Direct Equivalent:</span> A course which has been evaluated by UNL and determined to be equivalent to a specific UNL course. A direct equivalent will fulfill the same requirement as the UNL course. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Double Major:</span> Student majoring in two programs within the same college. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Drop:</span> To cancel registration in a course. It is only available during the add/drop period as specified on the academic calendar. Students can drop a course through MyRED. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Dual Enrollment: </span>When a student earns both high school and college credit for a course.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Dual Matriculation: </span>A student is earning two bachelors degrees. This requires an additional 30 hours added to the student’s program along with the requirements of both degree colleges. An example would be a student receiving a bachelor of science in business administration and a bachelor of arts in global studies. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Duplicate Credit: </span>A course that has already been taken; a student can’t receive credit in the same course multiple times. This can also define taking two courses which are determined to have corresponding content, outcomes, and level (STAT 218, SOCI 206, EDPS 459, CRIM 300 and ECON 215). </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Education Abroad Credit:</span> Credit earned by a UNL student while studying, interning, researching, or doing service learning outside the United States. Because of variation in educational systems and course work, this credit ideally should be previewed by department faculty before the education abroad experience. Credit transcribed from an institution outside the United States must be reviewed by specific department faculty to evaluate its applicability to the student’s degree program. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Evaluation: </span>Process by which the department/advising office evaluates transfer credit to determine its equivalence to a UNL course based on similar content, level and outcomes. May also refer to the process by which a student’s degree college evaluates transfer credit which does not have a direct equivalent. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">FERPA (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974):</span> Protects a student’s academic record within the post-secondary educational setting. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Financial Aid:</span> Funding provided to students from various sources to assist in expenses to attend college.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA): </span>A standardized application including detailed financial data that is required to determine eligibility for all financial aid programs.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Full-Time (student): </span>Students registered for 12 or more credits in the fall or spring semester.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">General Education Requirements/Achievement Centered Education (ACE):</span> A set of courses and learning outcomes that is required for all students to help students gain a broader education related to social, global, humanity and artistic perspectives in a variety of academic disciplines. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">General Elective Credit (GNCR):</span> Transfer courses accepted as UNL elective credit. Application of elective credit to the student’s degree program is at the discretion of the student’s degree college.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>High School or remedial level course (HSCR): Hours and courses that do not transfer even though they may have been earned at a postsecondary institution. This would include courses such as geometry and intermediate algebra. Some courses may transfer for non-degree hours. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Holds: </span>A hold on a student’s account can be from various offices needing action from the student. Common holds are for delinquent accounts, immunization records, library books, etc. Students can see details on their holds through MyRED, Student Center, and “Holds.” </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">International Baccalaureate (IB Credit):</span> Credit awarded by UNL for appropriate scores on International Baccalaureate Exams. http://admissions.unl.edu/discover/academics/advanced-credit/ib-program.aspx</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">International Credit (IVAL): </span>Credit earned at an institution outside the United States. Because educational systems vary greatly, all international credit must be reviewed by specific department faculty to evaluate its applicability to a UNL degree. To ease this process, some courses have been reviewed and transfer as direct equivalents.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Incomplete:</span> A grade given, usually under extenuating circumstances, when a student is not able to complete a course within the semester. The professor assigns a grade of incomplete at the end of the semester and works out a contractual agreement for completion. Grades of incomplete do not affect a student’s GPA. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Lower Level (100 or 200 level):</span> General introductory courses, usually making up the first two years of a bachelors degree. Credit awarded by a community college is generally considered lower division credit. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Major: </span>A program of study in a degree where a significant number of the courses are in a single discipline or related disciplines in an interdisciplinary major. http://bulletin.unl.edu/undergraduate/major/</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Math Placement Exam: </span>A math exam for students in order to determine the level of math at UNL that the student is academically prepared to complete. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Matriculation:</span> Formal application to and acceptance in a degree or certificate program during a specific semester.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Minimum Grades:</span> The lowest grade accepted to complete a requirement. Each college determines acceptability and applicability of course work with grades lower than “C” (2.0 on a 4.0 scale) including “C-.” </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Minor:</span> A program of study requiring fewer courses than a major. Some majors require a minor and other majors do not require a minor. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Modern Language Placement Exam:</span> Readiness exam for students wanting to continue language in French, German, and Spanish. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Multiple Course Equivalency:</span> A direct equivalence involving a combination of courses. In some cases, the course content is divided differently. An accounting series may be divided into three courses at one institution which are equivalent to two courses at UNL. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">MyPLAN (My Personal Learning and Advising Network):</span> A tool located in My.UNL/Blackboard, used to connect with advisers and instructors. Many offices are using MyPLAN as an on-line appointment system for students as well. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">MyRED:</span> An on-line tool used by students to view and keep track of their academic records, register for courses, see final course grades, view and maintain financial/scholarship processes, etc. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Non Degree Applicable (NDAP): </span>Transfer course credit hours which are included in the equivalency and generally not degree-applicable. For example, if 4 credit hours are awarded for a course at another institution, but the equivalent UNL course awards 3 credit hours, the extra 1 semester hour of transfer credit may be recorded as NDAP and would not apply to the student’s degree. If a transfer course is awarded fewer credit hours than the equivalent UNL course, the evaluator may stipulate that the course will satisfy the requirement for the UNL course, without additional hours. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Open Registration: </span>Following Priority Registration when registration for the upcoming semesters is open to all students. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Override: </span>A professor can give permission for a student to be admitted into a closed course (usually by a schedule adjustment form or permission code). </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Pass/No Pass (P/NP): </span>This option does not affect a student’s GPA and has to be decided by a certain date located in the academic calendar and can be changed in MyRED. Some courses have the option to be taken as P/NP or only offered as P/NP. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Pre-Professional Programs:</span> Pre-Professional is an advising category for students preparing to enter a professional school. Pre-Health and Pre-Law areas are not majors and, therefore, cannot grant students baccalaureate degrees.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Prerequisite: </span>A course/requirement a student must pass before enrollment can take place in a more advanced course in the discipline or in a related discipline. A common prerequisite for calculus is college algebra and trigonometry.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Priority Registration:</span> Student’s registration time based on how many credits have been earned as well as the number of hours in progress (decided by the Office of the University Registrar). Priority Registration for the spring starts in October and ends in November; Priority Registration for the fall/summer starts in March and ends in April. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Probation (academic or disciplinary): </span>A status assigned because of unsatisfactory grades or conduct.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Registration:</span> The process by which a student is enrolled in classes.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Recitation/Quiz:</span> Lecture is broken into smaller sections known as recitation or quiz; often used as a way for students to ask questions, gain additional course information and assignments, work with group members, or take quizzes. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Repeating a Course:</span> This policy allows students to repeat a course where an unsatisfactory grade was earned and use the higher grade earned during the second or third attempt to be used in GPA calculation. Please note that the initial enrollment in the course remains on the transcript with a note that the grade earned in the second or third attempt is used in GPA calculation.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Special Topics Course:</span> A course which subject matter may vary from semester to semester; it may include current or special topics. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Student Identification Number (NUID):</span> A numeric code assigned to students that becomes their identity in university databases. This number is used in place of a social security number so that a student’s privacy can be maintained. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Subject Credit (SUBJ): </span>Course transfers as subject area hours (e.g., ENGL XXX, MATH XXX) not assigned to a specific course. It can be designated with a level, such as 1XX for freshman level, 2XX for sophomore level, etc. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Substitution: </span>Process by which the degree college agrees to substitute a similar (comparable) course for a particular requirement of a student’s degree. This may occur when a course is not considered a direct equivalent. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Syllabus: </span>An outline of the main points of the course. This can also include specific topics covered by the course, important date and deadlines for the course, professor’s information, and books required for the course. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Transcript:</span> An official transcript is the original record verifying a student’s enrollment and grades, and certified (by signature and/or seal) by the institution. It is normally sent directly by mail upon the student’s written request. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Transfer Course Equivalencies Table:</span> An on-line table of courses from selected institutions listing the courses which have been reviewed by UNL faculty and the current UNL equivalent for those courses. Application of all courses to a specific UNL degree is at the discretion of the UNL College granting the degree. Information can be found on: http://admissions.unl.edu/nebraska/equivalency.aspx.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Transfer Credit:</span> Credit awarded by a program or postsecondary institution other than the institution at which the student is currently enrolled. At the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, this is any credit not awarded by UNL. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Transfer Guides: </span>An on-line list of suggested courses that may be taken at a specific community college which will transfer and apply toward Achievement Centered Education (ACE) requirements at UNL. Guide can be found at: http://ucommxsrv1.unl.edu/dgs_2008/.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Tuition:</span> Charges to a student by the University for registration in credit courses.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Undergraduate Bulletin: </span>The set of rules, regulations, policies, programs, requirements, and courses. This can also be referred to as a catalog. A student is normally bound by the requirements of the bulletin in effect when the student was admitted to the degree college. Each degree college has policies regarding changes to bulletins. The Undergraduate Bulletin can be found at: http://bulletin.unl.edu/undergraduate/.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Upper Level (300 and 400 level): </span>Less general, more focused courses, usually making up most of the final two years of a bachelors degree. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Vocational or Skill Development Course (VCRD):</span> Courses designated as vocational or skill development courses not applicable to a UNL degree. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Withdrawal from a Course:</span> To drop from a course after the add/drop deadline in the academic course will result in a “W” on the student’s record. Students can drop a course through MyRED. Grades of a “W” do not affect a student’s GPA, but cannot be removed from transcripts. </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Courses of Instruction</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Subject Area Abbreviations</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The University of Nebraska–Lincoln uses standard abbreviations for academic subject areas and program titles as part of course descriptions. This list can be found by clicking on Course Abbreviations under the Courses tab in the heading.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Abbreviations and Symbols Commonly Used in the Bulletin</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Achievement-Centered Education</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>anly or anlys analysis</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>appl or apps or ap application or applied</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>arr arranged</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>corec corequisite<span class="requirement-ital"> (see parallel)</span></p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>coreg coregistration</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-note" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital"> (denotes taking another class along with the one listed) (see parallel)</span></p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>cr or crs credit or credit hours</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>cr arr credit hours arranged</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>cum cumulative grade point average<span class="list-ital"> </span><span class="requirement-ital">(see GPA)</span></p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>D Extended Education <span class="requirement-ital">(contract course)</span></p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>Ed or Educ Education</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>elem elementary</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>F Distance Education-“Field” Class</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>fld field</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>fund or fun fundamentals</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>G graduate</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>GPA Grade Point Average</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>grad or Grad graduate</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>H Honors</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>hr or hrs hours</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>I or inc incomplete</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>ind independent</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>intermed intermediate</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>intro or intr introduction</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>L laboratory with credit hours</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>Lab or lab laboratory</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>Lec lecture</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>max maximum</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>NP or N No Pass credit allowed toward degree</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>NR No Report</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>P Pass</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>P/N Pass/No Pass</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>PO Pass/No Pass grading option</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>parallel denotes taking another class along with the one listed </p>
			<p class="abbreviations-note" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital"> (a corequisite or coregistration)</span></p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>Prereq or preq prerequisite</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>princ principles</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>Pro or prof professional</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>PSI Personal System of Instruction</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>quz quiz</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>Rec Recreation</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>rct or Reci recitation</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>rsh research</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>S (denotes) Distance Education class</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>sec secondary</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>sem semester</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>smnr seminar</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>Stu or stu studio</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>TBA to be assigned</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>tch teach</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>tchr teacher</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>tchng teaching</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>tech technology or technical</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>UG undergraduate</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>UNL University of Nebraska–Lincoln</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>UNMC University of Nebraska Medical Center</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>UNO University of Nebraska at Omaha</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>W withdrew</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>/ and/or</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>&amp; and</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>+ and</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>&gt; greater than</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-list" xml:lang='en-us'>&lt; less than</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Course Prerequisites and Corequisites</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Course prerequisites indicate the level of preparation a student must have had to take a given course. Equivalent preparation is generally sufficient. If there is doubt about a student’s preparation level, permission to enroll may be requested from the instructor of the course or from the department chairperson. Academic departments reserve the right to deny admission in a course if the prerequisite has not been completed. Academic departments reserve the right to give permission or waive the prerequisite for any course or to substitute for the prerequisite learning obtained by other means than through the prerequisite course(s). See the Courses of Instruction section for each undergraduate college in this bulletin for official listing of course prerequisites.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The use of the words “parallel”, “corequisite”, or “coregister with” in the prerequisite for a course means that both courses are to be taken simultaneously.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Grading System</p>
			<p class="abbreviations-note" xml:lang='en-us'>The University uses an A through F grading system. The letter grades with point value (in parentheses) are: A+ (4.0), A (4.0), A- (3.67), B+ (3.33), B (3.0), B- (2.67), C+ (2.33), C (2.0), C- (1.67), D+ (1.33), D (1.0), D- (0.67), and F (0). Grades of W (dropped/withdrew), I (incomplete), P (pass/C or better), and N (no pass) may also be given. W, I, P, and N are not assigned grade points and therefore are not used in computation of a student’s grade point average.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Academic Standards-Institutional Policy</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Probation.</span> A student who receives a semester grade point average (GPA) of less than 2.00 or ends a semester with a cumulative GPA below 2.00 will be placed (or will continue) on probation. The student will remain on probation until a semester is completed with both a semester and cumulative GPA at or above 2.00, or until the student is dismissed.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Academic Dismissal.</span> A student will be dismissed from UNL at the end of any semester* in which the following conditions exist:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. Cumulative Credit Hours** 1-18: more than one semester attended and a cumulative grade point average (GPA) below 1.00.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Cumulative Credit Hours 19-45: cumulative GPA below 2.00 at end of prior semester, and both semester and cumulative GPAs are below 1.75 or three consecutive semesters on probation. The unsuccessful semester which places the student on probation is considered the first of the three consecutive semesters on probation.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. Cumulative Credit Hours 46 and above: cumulative GPA below 2.00 at end of prior semester, and both semester and cumulative GPAs are below 2.00 or three consecutive semesters on probation.</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>* <span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span> Course work taken during any of the four summer sessions will be collectively considered as one semester of attendance.</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>** <span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span> For the purposes of enforcing academic standards, cumulative credit hours include the following:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. Credit hours that a student registered for and did not drop during the first two weeks of the course. These are the courses that are subject to a grade.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. All transfer hours presented.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Readmission.</span> A student who has been dismissed from UNL will be denied enrollment privileges for at least two consecutive semesters (the four summer sessions count as one semester). Readmission to UNL is not automatic. A dismissed student may apply for readmission to UNL for the semester following the mandatory “stop-out” period or any subsequent semesters. Applications for readmission will be evaluated by the Office of Admissions in accordance with criteria established by each of the colleges.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Please see college information for specific standards related to the college. </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Honors Convocation Recognition Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Honors Convocation recognition requirements for students entering the University after the Spring Semester 2004 require that those eligible for recognition be in the top ten percent of their college class based on their cumulative grade point average (but with a cumulative GPA no lower than 3.6) and meet the additional requirements stated below.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students whose first college matriculation at UNL (after high school graduation) occurred before June 2004 will be recognized on the basis of recognition requirements in force at that time. This policy will also apply to transfer students from UNO and UNK whose first college matriculation at those institutions preceded the June 2004 implementation of the recognition criteria.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Honors Convocation criteria for students entering the University in the 2004-05 academic year and after are listed below. Students will be recognized only for the highest award for which they qualify.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">High Scholarship. </span>Students must be in the top ten percent of their college class based on their cumulative grade point average and meet the following specific requirements:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. Required semesters in residence at UNL: juniors and seniors must have completed at least 3 semesters or 42 credit hours at UNL; sophomores must have completed at least 2 semesters or 28 credit hours; freshmen must have completed at least 1 semester or 12 credit hours.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Hours completed first semester: seniors must complete a minimum of 9 hours, of which 6 must be graded A through F. (Student teachers in the College of Education and Human Sciences may be exceptions.) Students graduating in December may take only those hours needed for graduation. Juniors, sophomores, and freshmen must complete a minimum of 12 hours first (fall) semester, at least 9 of which are graded A through F.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Superior Scholarship.</span> Superior scholarship students are seniors graduating between December and August who: 1) meet the requirements for high scholarship for seniors, and 2) are in the upper three percent of the senior class of their college or have been on the UNL Honors Convocation list each year since matriculation as a freshman.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Chancellor’s Scholars.</span> Seniors graduating between December and August qualify for this award if they meet the following criteria.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. Graduating seniors must have earned the grade of A in all graded collegiate work at UNL and at other institutions and a grade of P for all classes taken in the Pass/No Pass grading option (excluding foreign study and collegiate work taken prior to the student’s graduation from high school. The student must request the exclusion of a grade taken prior to graduation from high school and the re-calculation of the GPA in writing to the University Honors Program, 118 NRC, 0659, by March 1). At least 42 graded semester hours must have been earned at UNL by the end of first (fall) semester of the academic year of graduation.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. During first semester, a student must complete a minimum of 9 total hours with no more than 3 hours of Pass/No Pass course work. (Student teachers in the College of Education and Human Sciences may be exceptions.) Students graduating in December may take only those hours needed for graduation.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">General Information for Honors.</span> Students with grade changes or students finishing incompletes after January 1 should contact the Office of the University Honors Program to see that these changes have been recorded.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All grades are averaged in figuring cumulative GPA. Students repeating a class to remove C-, D, or F grades will have both the original and the repeat grade used to calculate GPA.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Only those seniors recognized as Superior Scholars and Chancellor’s Scholars (see above) need to order caps and gowns for the Honors Convocation ceremonies. The Honors Convocation invitation will give appropriate instructions.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> Only University of Nebraska system grades are used to compute the GPA for Honors. For computing the GPA for Honors, a student may request the exclusion of a University of Nebraska system grade earned in a course taken prior to graduation from high school. This request for a re-calculation of the GPA must be made in writing to the University Honors Program, 118 NRC, 0659, prior to March 1. UNL, UNO, UNK, and UNMC students are considered resident students.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> Each college also has their own recognition.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Recognition of Outstanding Academic Achievement</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In addition to providing qualified students with an opportunity to enrich their academic programs by taking honors courses, the University and its colleges recognize the academic achievements of all their talented and dedicated students.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>The Honors Convocation: University and Chancellor’s Scholars</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In April of each year, the Chancellor hosts the All-University Honors Convocation at which students who meet recognition requirements are honored as University Scholars. Special recognition is given to Chancellor’s Scholars, graduating seniors who have maintained a perfect 4.0 grade point in all their collegiate work.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>The Dean’s List: College Scholars</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Each semester, the eight undergraduate colleges identify students who perform at a superior level academically by recording their names on the Dean’s List of the respective colleges. These College Scholars have earned at least a B+ average in a specified number of courses (the standard varies from college to college) during the semester for which they are recognized.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Graduation with Distinction in UNL’s Undergraduate Colleges</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The colleges also praise their most successful students by recommending them for graduation with distinction, high distinction or highest distinction. While the manner of selection varies from college to college, all graduates with a level of distinction upon graduation have earned the respect of both the university community and the larger society they are about to join. Acknowledgment of such achievement is made publicly at commencement and, of course, is indicated on the student’s diploma.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Departmental Honors</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Many academic departments offer honors courses and provide high-ability students with special research opportunities. Students who do not participate in the University Honors Program may request permission to register for an honors course from the course instructor or the department office. Refer to college and departmental listings in this bulletin for further information or contact the University Honors Program Office.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Grading Policies</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>University faculty members are expected to inform students early in the semester of course objectives, requirements, standards, and grading procedures for the particular course. In addition, they should make clear their individual policies regarding the Pass/No Pass grading option and the assignment of I (incomplete) grades. Failure of any faculty member to inform students of special restrictions in these areas could be grounds for a grade appeal case. Grade appeal procedures exist in all UNL undergraduate colleges (see Grade Appeals in individual undergraduate college sections of this bulletin).</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Pass/No Pass Grading Option</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Pass/No Pass grading option was designed to enable students to take courses in areas of interest where they may feel they have had minimal preparation without adversely affecting their grade point average. Grades of P (pass) are interpreted as a grade of C or better. Neither grade P or N (no pass) contributes to the grade point average.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>There are collegiate restrictions on the use of this grading option. Students should see Pass/No Pass in individual undergraduate college sections of this bulletin, see the Schedule of Classes, and talk with their academic advisers concerning the use of this option.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Grades of Incomplete</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The grade I is used by an instructor at the end of a term to designate incomplete work in a course. It should be used only when students are unable to complete the requirements of the course in the term in which they are registered because of illness, military service, hardship, or death in the immediate family. Incompletes should only be given if the student has already substantially completed the major requirements of the course.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>For complete procedures and regulations, see the Schedule of Classes.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Course Repeat Policy</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Only the most recent letter grade received in a given course will be used in computing a student’s cumulative grade point average if the student has completed the course more than once and previously received a grade or grades below C in that course.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The previous grade (or grades) will not be used in computation of the cumulative grade point average, but it will remain a part of the academic record and will appear on any transcript.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A student can remove from his/her cumulative average a course grade of C-, D+, D, D-, or F if the student repeats the equivalent course at the University of Nebraska and receives a grade other than P (pass), I (incomplete), N (no pass), W (withdrew), or NR (no report). If a course is no longer being offered, it is not eligible for the removal process.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>For complete procedures and regulations, see the Schedule of Classes.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Automatic Removal of Grade Factors From Cumulative GPA For Repeated Courses</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Courses graded A+ to F for the current semester are checked against all courses taken since the installation of the computerized records system (September, 1986) and grade factors are automatically subtracted for repeated courses originally graded C-, D+, D, D-, or F.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Exceptions to Automatic Grade Factor Removal Processing</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Independent study courses, special topics courses and variable credit hour courses will not be processed automatically. These courses will be identified to the Registrar’s Office to check the C-, D+, D, D- or F status manually. Any of these courses that qualify for removal will be processed manually by the Registrar’s Office. The student will be notified of the change by a Grade Notification letter.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Students must complete an “Undergraduate Course Repeat Re-Computation Request” for the following situations:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. Repeated courses that were first taken prior to the First Semester 1986-87.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. UNMC, UNO, UNK equivalent course.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. Late grades or grade changes after the grade census date (approximately three weeks after the end of the term).</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. Cross-listed courses (i.e., FINA 365/ECON 365).</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Requests for course repeat(s) processing for these exception-type situations are available at, and must be submitted to the Office of the University Registrar, 107 Canfield Administration Building, approximately three weeks after the end of the term. Removals processed during this revision period will be reflected in the official (census date) cumulative grade point average. Students not meeting this deadline will be notified of the change approximately two weeks after the request is received. Late changes will not be reflected in the official (census date) cumulative grade point average.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Academic Bankruptcy</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A student may remove one or two complete semesters of work from their cumulative grade point average and degree consideration by applying to the Office of the University Registrar for academic bankruptcy. To qualify, a student must have completed either 15 simultaneous or sequential credit hours with a minimum 3.0 grade point average or 30 hours with a minimum 2.5 grade point average at UNL following the semester(s) the student wishes to remove.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In order to declare a semester bankrupt, all courses taken during the semester are bankrupt (both credit hours and grades). The bankrupt semester is removed from consideration for cumulative grade point average purposes and the bankrupt credit is not used for degree requirements. The semester listing of courses and grades remain evident on the academic record which is used to issue transcripts. A student may not bankrupt a semester after receiving a baccalaureate degree. College Independent Study via On-line and Distance Education is not included in computing qualifying grade point averages; P grades may not be used to meet bankruptcy requirements.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>For complete procedures and regulations, see the Schedule of Classes.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Advanced Placement</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In order to help students gain credit by advanced standing, the University provides opportunities for advanced placement. UNL participates in the Advanced Placement Program (AP) of the College Entrance Examination Board and the College Level Examination Program (CLEP). Students can obtain detailed information on acceptable courses from the Office of Admissions.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Credit by Examination</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Some currently-enrolled students, through outside study or relevant experience, may feel prepared to demonstrate that they have attained the knowledge and/or skills required to pass a particular UNL course. As an alternative to enrolling in the course, such students may elect to take a proficiency exam which tests for mastery of the course material. If a student scores satisfactorily on the examination, the student may be awarded credit for the course. Students can obtain detailed information from the dean’s office of their college.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Graduation Requirements</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>General Education Requirements (ACE)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>First-year students who begin matriculation at UNL in fall 2009 are required to complete the new general education requirements for the Achievement–Centered Education (ACE) Program.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>It is anticipated that UNL students matriculating prior to fall 2009 will continue to complete the CEP General Education Program requirements as designated by the bulletin year in which the student started his or her UNL college program. Students who transfer to UNL as of fall 2009 may elect to complete their program under the CEP General Education Program requirements. See academic advisers for more information.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Achievement-Centered Education (ACE)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Consistent with the mission and values of the University, ACE is based on a shared set of four institutional objectives and 10 student learning outcomes.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Institutional Objectives and Student Learning Outcomes</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>To meet the ACE Program requirement, a student will complete the equivalent of 3 credit hours for each of the following ten ACE Student Learning Outcomes (a total of 30 ACE credit hours):</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Institutional Objective 1:</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Develop intellectual and practical skills, including proficiency in written, oral, and visual communication; inquiry techniques; critical and creative thinking; quantitative applications; information assessment; teamwork; and problem-solving.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 1:</span> Write texts, in various forms, with an identified purpose, that respond to specific audience needs, incorporate research or existing knowledge, and use applicable documentation and appropriate conventions of format and structure.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 2:</span> Demonstrate communication competence in one or more of the following ways: (a) by making oral presentations with supporting materials, (b) by leading and participating in problem-solving teams, (c) by employing a repertoire of communication skills for developing and maintaining professional and personal relationships, or (d) by creating and interpreting visual information.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 3: </span>Use mathematical, computational, statistical, or formal reasoning (including reasoning based on principles of logic) to solve problems, draw inferences, and determine reasonableness.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Institutional Objective 2:</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Build knowledge of diverse peoples and cultures and of the natural and physical world through the study of mathematics, sciences and technologies, histories, humanities, arts, social sciences, and human diversity.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 4:</span> Use scientific methods and knowledge of the natural and physical world to address problems through inquiry, interpretation, analysis, and the making of inferences from data, to determine whether conclusions or solutions are reasonable.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 5: </span>Use knowledge, historical perspectives, analysis, interpretation, critical evaluation, and the standards of evidence appropriate to the humanities to address problems and issues.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 6:</span> Use knowledge, theories, methods, and historical perspectives appropriate to the social sciences to understand and evaluate human behavior.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 7:</span> Use knowledge, theories, or methods appropriate to the arts to understand their context and significance.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Institutional Objective 3:</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Exercise individual and social responsibilities through the study of ethical principles and reasoning, application of civic knowledge, interaction with diverse cultures, and engagement with global issues.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 8:</span> Explain ethical principles, civics, and stewardship, and their importance to society.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 9:</span> Exhibit global awareness or knowledge of human diversity through analysis of an issue.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Institutional Objective 4:</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Integrate these abilities and capacities, adapting them to new settings, questions, and responsibilities.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 10:</span> Generate a creative or scholarly product that requires broad knowledge, appropriate technical proficiency, information collection, synthesis, interpretation, presentation, and reflection.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Structural Criteria</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Graduates of the University of Nebraska–Lincoln will satisfy the requirements of their majors, their colleges, and the ACE Program.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. ACE courses are credit-bearing curricular offerings or equivalent documented co-curricular experiences.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. The ACE Program will consist of the equivalent of 3 credit hours for each of the ten ACE Student Learning Outcomes.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. Any ACE course approved to satisfy an ACE Student Learning Outcome satisfies that Student Learning Outcome in all UNL undergraduate colleges.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. Up to three ACE Student Learning Outcomes 4-10 may be satisfied by work in one subject area.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>5. ACE Student Learning Outcomes must be satisfied by work in at least three subject areas.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>6. No ACE course may satisfy more than one ACE Student Learning Outcome in a student’s program.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>7. If an ACE course addressed two ACE Student Learning Outcomes, the student decides which one of the two Outcomes the course will satisfy in that student’s program.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>8. Every ACE course will reinforce at least one of the following as appropriate for the discipline and as identified by the department offering the course: Writing, Oral Communication, Visual Literacy, Historical Perspectives, Mathematics and Statistics, Critical Thinking, Teamwork, Problem Solving, Ethics, Civics, Social Responsibility, Global Awareness, or Human Diversity.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE courses are identified in course descriptions by the ACE symbol followed by the Student Learning Outcome number(s) that they fulfill. See the ACE website at: http://ace.unl.edu for the most current information and the most recently certified courses.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Graduate Studies</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Admission of UNL Seniors</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Seniors at UNL needing not more than 9 undergraduate credit hours to complete the bachelors degree and wishing to register for graduate credit may be granted admission to a Graduate College degree program on a provisional basis subject to receiving their baccalaureates within one calendar year. They must file an application for admission to Graduate Studies and, if admitted, their registration may count as residence in the Graduate College.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Graduate Courses Taken by UNL Seniors</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>UNL seniors who have obtained in advance the approval of the Dean of Graduate Studies may enroll in up to 12 hours credit for graduate courses taken in addition to the courses necessary to complete their undergraduate work, provided that such credits are earned within the calendar year prior to receipt of the baccalaureate.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Course work taken prior to receipt of the baccalaureate may not always be accepted for transfer to other institutions as graduate work.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Seniors in the University Honors Program are encouraged to consider taking 400/800-level courses at the 800 level with the concurrence of their adviser and permission of the instructor and Dean of Graduate Studies.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Please contact the Office of Graduate Studies, 1100 Seaton Hall, prior to registering for graduate course work. Completion of a Hold for Graduate Credit Form is required.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>SPECIAL ACADEMIC PROGRAMS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Special Undergraduate Programs</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Pre-Professional Studies</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In addition to undergraduate programs leading to a bachelors degree, several UNL colleges offer pre-professional programs of study designed to prepare students for advanced training or professional study after graduation.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>These are not programs with a predetermined outline of courses leading to a degree in a specific professional field. Rather, with careful planning and an adviser’s assistance, students build a degree program designed to enhance knowledge in areas relevant to future professional work.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students can obtain advising and courses for pre-professional studies from three undergraduate colleges at the University. The College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources offers pre-forestry and pre-veterinary medicine; the College of Architecture offers pre-architecture and pre-interior design; the College of Arts and Sciences offers preparation in pre-chiropractic, pre-clinical perfusion science, pre-cytotechnology, pre-dental hygiene, pre-dentistry, pre-law, pre-medical technology, pre-medicine, pre-mortuary science, pre-nuclear medicine technology, pre-occupational therapy, pre-optometry, pre-pharmacy, pre-physical therapy, pre-physician’s assistant, pre-radiologic technology, and pre-seminary/theology information.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students can develop a pre-law program in any of UNL’s undergraduate colleges, but they should choose their courses carefully beginning their freshman year.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>University Honors Program</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The University Honors Program is a special program for which formal application is required. Students admitted to the Program have ACT composite scores in the upper 20s or above, are in the top ten percent of their high school class and, most importantly, have demonstrated a commitment to intellectual curiosity and academic excellence. Acceptance into the Program is based on a comprehensive evaluation of the student’s potential by the Honors Program Faculty Committee. All the undergraduate colleges support the Program, and honors courses apply to college and major requirements. A special notation is made on the transcript and diploma upon graduation from the University Honors Program to inform graduate schools and employers of the student’s superior performance. Honors Program students may request housing in the honors residence, the Neihardt Residence Center.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students admitted to the Honors Program in their first year of college must fulfill the following requirements in order to complete the Program:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">A.</span> Full-time student: 12 credit hours each semester (fall and spring)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">B.</span> Cumulative GPA: 3.5</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">C.</span> 24 credit hours in honors courses with a grade of B or better: to include 189H and 395H</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">D.</span> Sequence:</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-underline">First and Second years</span>:</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'>Complete 15 honors credit hours with a grade of B or better in the first four semesters of college work including 189H and file a Statement of Academic Interest.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'>Complete at least 6 honors credit hours with a grade of B or better each year (Fall and/or Spring).</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-underline">Third and Fourth years</span>:</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'>Complete 9 honors credit hours with a grade of B or better in the junior and senior years, including 395H.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'>File a Memorandum of Study (research prospectus) prior to completing 100 hours.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'>Complete at least 3 honors credit hours with a grade of B or better each year (Fall or Spring)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">E.</span> Completion of an honors research or creative project (e.g., thesis).</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students admitted to the Program having earned college credits after high school graduation either at the University of Nebraska or another school should discuss modified requirements with the Honors Program director.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Managementt develops leaders for a technology-driven world. Graduates will be professionals who understand the multiple levels of new information systems, and who become the technology sector’s innovators, product developers, entrepreneurs, chief information officers, and CEOs.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The undergraduate program is designed to give students a strong well-rounded education and to give them not only the ability to create information technology applications and solutions, but also the capacity to understand the implications of information technology for business and society. The program produces graduates with high technical proficiency as well as a strong sense of the business problems and organizational needs that information systems are intended to serve.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students interested in learning more about the Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management are encouraged to call the Program at 402-472-6000 or visit the Program website at raikes.unl.edu.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
