<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Architecture Main Page</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="architecture-main-page">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="college-name"><span class="generated-style">College of Architecture</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="generated-style">COLLEGE: College of Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="generated-style">MAJORS: Architecture, Landscape Architecture, Interior Design</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the College of Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln does not constitute admission to the College of Architecture. Students seeking enrollment in the College of Architecture should indicate their desire by marking the proper major code on the University application form.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Freshmen students applying for admission to the pre-architecture and pre-landscape architecture program must submit complete admission application materials by March 15. Please note this is different from the standard university procedures. Freshmen students applying for admission to the pre-interior design program must submit complete admission application materials by May 1 for fall admission and December 1 for spring admission. Transfer students must present materials by May 1. These admission procedures apply to high school students seeking admission, as well as transfer students, international students, and also those transferring from UNO and UNK to UNL.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">High School Standards Pre-Architecture Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Prospective students interested in the Professional Program in Architecture are eligible to apply for admission into the pre-architecture major if their high school records meet the following standards:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Mathematics–4 units of Algebra I, II, geometry, and one-half unit of trigonometry, and one-half unit that builds on a knowledge of algebra or pre-calculus.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. English–4 units of intensive reading and writing.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Social Studies–3 units. At least one unit of American and/or world history and one additional unit of history, American government, and/or geography.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Natural Science–3 units. At least two of the three units selected from biology, chemistry, physics, and earth sciences. One of the units must include a laboratory.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Foreign Language–2 units.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Deficiencies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">High School Standards Pre-Interior Design Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Prospective students interested in the interior design program are eligible for admission to the pre-interior design major if their high school records meet the following standards:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Mathematics–4 units of Algebra I, II, geometry, and one additional unit that builds on a knowledge of algebra.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. English–4 units of intensive reading and writing.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Social Studies–3 units. At least one unit of American and/or world history and one additional unit of history, American government, and/or geography.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Natural Science–3 units. At least two of the three units selected from biology, chemistry, physics, and earth sciences. One of the units must include a laboratory.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Foreign Language–2 units.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Deficiencies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each application that does not meet the requirements for Assured Admission will automatically receive individual review. The applicant’s total academic record and performance will be taken into consideration. If admitted, all deficiencies will have to be made up within the first academic year and are governed by University policies for removal of deficiencies.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">High School Standards Pre-Landscape Architecture Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Prospective students interested in the professional program in landscape architecture are eligible to apply for admission into the pre-architecture major if their high school records meet the following standards:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Mathematics–4 units of Algebra I, II, geometry, and one-half unit of trigonometry, and one-half unit that builds on a knowledge of algebra or pre-calculus.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. English–4 units of intensive reading and writing.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Social Studies–3 units. At least one unit of American and/or world history and one additional unit of history, American government, and/or geography.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Natural Science–3 units. At least one of these units must include chemistry with a lab. Two other units can be from biology, physics, and/or earth sciences.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Foreign Language–2 units.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each application that does not meet the requirements for Assured Admission will automatically receive individual review. The applicant’s total academic record and performance will be taken into consideration. If admitted, all deficiencies will have to be made up within the first academic year and are governed by University policies for removal of deficiencies.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">General Admission Requirements for the College of Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition to the high school admission requirements, the College of Architecture has established the following general admission requirements for all undergraduate students.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">New freshman students must: </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Graduate in the upper quartile of their high school class, or</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Have an enhanced ACT composite score of 22, or</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Have a combined SAT verbal and math total of at least 1030 enhanced, or</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Receive permission from the chair of the department with a waiver from the above requirements.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">New international freshman students must:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Meet UNL entrance requirements for new international freshman students, and</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Have a MELAB score of at least 80 or a minimum TOEFL score of 550, or computer-based score of 213 or 79-80 Internet-based.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">New transfer students must:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Have a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA for architecture, landscape architecture, and interior design and be in good scholastic standing.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> New transfer students must comply with new freshman student entrance requirements if they have completed less than 12 credit hours of college study.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">New international transfer students must:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Meet UNL entrance requirements for international transfer students</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Have a MELAB score of at least 80 or a minimum TOEFL score of 550, or computer-based score of 213, or Internet-based score of 79-80</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Have a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA and be in good scholastic standing</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Students who transfer into the College of Architecture from other colleges at UNL must:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Have a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA for architecture, landscape architecture, and interior design and be in good scholastic standing. Students transferring from UNO and UNK are included in the new transfer student category.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> New transfer students must comply with new freshman student entrance requirements if they have completed less than 12 credit hours of college study.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Readmission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who apply for readmission to the College of Architecture must have a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA for architecture and landscape architecture or 3.0 for interior design, be in good scholastic standing and receive permission from the dean of the College. Students may apply for admittance into the pre-architecture, pre-landscape architecture, and pre-interior design program a maximum of three times.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style"> Former students who withdraw after being admitted to the College, or who have been academically suspended and wish to be readmitted must: a) be readmitted to the College in good scholastic standing, and b) be in good scholastic standing in accordance with the departmental standards and receive permission from the chair of the department. Applicants for readmission will compete for spaces available with all other admission applicants.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADVISING</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Academic Advising</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Architecture is committed to providing effective advising services to students as an essential component of their educational experience.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the architecture, landscape architecture, and interior design programs are assigned to a staff adviser. These advisers are located in the program office to afford students easy access to information and to the program directors should this be necessary or desirable. Students are also given access to an advisers Web site developed specifically for the College.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">After admission into their respective professional program, students are assigned a faculty adviser. This person serves as an important resource for questions about the professions, their future careers, and their academic plans and progress. Students are encouraged to regularly consult with their adviser and are responsible for initiating advising contacts and preparing for advising sessions. Students must consult with their adviser prior to registering for classes. Failure to do so may result in removal from classes. Ultimately, students are themselves responsible for fulfilling all the requirements of the curriculum in which they are enrolled. The intellectual mentoring relationship between academic adviser and student is protected by confidentiality and strengthened by listening with understanding to student concerns.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The program office houses student records and the staff is helpful in checking on degree requirements and University procedures and policies.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The program office provides information for prospective and entering students who are seeking admission to the College of Architecture.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Academic Load</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the bachelor of science in design (BSD) degree program must be enrolled in 12 credit hours of course work to be classified as a full time student. Students in the master of architecture degree program must be enrolled in 9 credit hours of course work to be classified as a full time student. Students participating in one of the department’s study abroad programs enrolled in less than the credit hours specified above may also be classified as full time students with permission of the chair.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">BSD students must obtain permission from the chair of the department to enroll in more than 17 credit hours prior to the start of the semester. Students in the MArch program must obtain similar permission to exceed 15 credit hours.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Employment and Course Load Guidelines</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The study of architecture is a demanding discipline requiring a significant commitment to succeed. For this reason, the department has adopted a policy recommending students who are employed to not exceed the following registration guidelines:</span></p>
				<table>
					<thead>
						<tr>
							<td>
								<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Work load per week</span></p>
							</td>
							<td>
								<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Course load per semester</span></p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td>
								<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">0 hours</span></p>
							</td>
							<td>
								<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">up to 18 credit hours</span></p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td>
								<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">8-16 hours</span></p>
							</td>
							<td>
								<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">13-16 credit hours</span></p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td>
								<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">17-20 hours</span></p>
							</td>
							<td>
								<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">10-12 credit hours</span></p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td>
								<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Full time</span></p>
							</td>
							<td>
								<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">up to 6 cr hours</span></p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Professional students holding teaching or research assistantships are required to be enrolled as a student in the professional program and their course load cannot exceed 12 credit hours per semester. Students holding these positions are prohibited from engaging in any other form of remunerative employment without the permission of the program director.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Exclusions &amp; Restrictions</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Military Science, Naval Science, Aerospace Studies and/or Physical Education</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A maximum combination of courses in these areas totaling 6 credit hours can be applied toward the bachelor of science in design degree as elective credit.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Drop/Add </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The university’s drop/add policy is outlined in the </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Schedule of Classes </span><span class="generated-style">each semester. The professional program subscribes to the same rules and limitations indicated in this publication. In general, classes can only be added during the first week of the semester. You may drop a class from your schedule anytime during the first eleven weeks of the semester. After the eleventh week, withdrawal from the class is possible only for extraordinary circumstances and will be granted only by petition. Grounds for extraordinary withdrawal include: military service, medical illness, death in immediate family, personal trauma, or complete absence from all courses without officially withdrawing.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The specific deadline for dropping a class is listed in the </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Schedule of Classes</span><span class="generated-style">. Students can access their MyRED account to drop or add classes. Please be warned, failure to attend classes does not constitute proper notification of dropping a class. If you are unable to attend classes, you need to see or telephone your instructor as soon as possible. Failure to do so may jeopardize your chances for dropping the class. If you wish to drop all your courses, you need to use the Withdrawal from the University form. See the section below for a description of this process.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Drop/Add form is available in the program office.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Dual Degrees</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Joint Degree Programs</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Civil Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The departments of civil engineering and architecture offer a joint degree program of study. This program allows the student to obtain the masters degree in architecture and the bachelors degree in civil engineering after seven years of study. A suggested sequence of courses can be obtained from your adviser or the program office. Special advising for this program is provided by Professor Kuska.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Business</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Architecture majors accepted to the 5th and 6th years may choose to pursue a three-year course of study that leads to joint degrees of master of architecture and master of business administration. Participation in this joint degree program requires admission into both the MArch and MBA programs. Students should consult with their adviser to develop an appropriate plan.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Community and Regional Planning</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Architecture majors accepted to the 5th and 6th years may choose to pursue a course of study that leads to joint degrees of master of architecture and master of community and regional planning. A suggested sequence of courses can be obtained from your adviser, the Architecture Program Office, or the Community and Regional Planning Program Office.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Construction Management</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Architecture majors accepted to the 5th and 6th years may pursue a course of study that leads to joint degrees of master of architecture and master of engineering in construction management. This requires acceptance by the construction management program. The required course sequence can be obtained from your adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Enrollment Policy</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">College of Architecture Enrollment Policy</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Enrollment in the pre-architecture, pre-interior design, and pre-landscape architecture majors shall be limited by available teaching resources and space capacities,</span><span class="basic-text-bold"> therefore an enrollment limit is established for each of these programs.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the pre-architecture, pre-interior design, and pre-landscape architecture programs occurs year-round; however, access to studio courses is not guaranteed for those students admitted beyond the February 15th deadline for transfer students or March 15th deadline for freshmen.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Probation, Appeals and Dismissal</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">BSD students who are placed on probation will not be allowed to take any new architecture or interior design courses without the permission of the program director. Students will be allowed to retake architecture and interior design courses while on probation. Students may not take the same course more than three times.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the BSD degree program placed on academic probation by the College for two consecutive semesters will be transferred out of the College of Architecture into General Studies and must reapply for admission to the College and the architecture, landscape architecture, or interior design programs. Students must have a cumulative GPA of 3.0 to be readmitted from General Studies into architecture and 2.8 into interior design.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the MArch program placed on probation will be allowed to continue with their classes for one semester. If their next semester grade point average is below a 3.0 they are dismissed from the degree program. Students desiring to be readmitted will have to apply for admission to the professional program.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Students who register for new architecture or interior design courses while on probation will be administratively dropped from those courses unless they have received the permission of the program chair.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Registration Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are not allowed to register for 300-800 level architecture or interior design courses unless they have been admitted into their respective professional programs. Some specific courses allow registration of non-majors with permission of the faculty member teaching the course but this permission process is not available to majors.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The programs have adopted limits on the number of credit hours a student can register for without the permission of the chair. Students in good academic standing are allowed to register for a maximum of 17 credit hours. Students wishing to exceed this number must secure permission from the chair prior to registering for the courses. Under no circumstances can a student register for more than 19 hours in a semester.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who are on academic probation are restricted to a maximum number of 12 credit hours. Under no circumstances will they be allowed to exceed this number while on probation. For more specific limitations for students on academic probation see the text on Academic Standing earlier in this section.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Recognition</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Dean’s List</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each semester, select undergraduate students enrolled in the College of Architecture are recognized for their scholastic accomplishments by being named to the Dean’s List. Criteria for this honor are:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Students must earn a semester (not cumulative) GPA that ranks them in the upper ten percent of the College’s enrollment.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Students must earn a minimum of 12 graded credit hours during that semester. (Pass/No Pass credit cannot be applied toward the 12 required credit hours.)</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Graduation With Distinction and With High Distinction</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students with outstanding scholastic records may earn the special honor of graduation With Distinction or With High Distinction. One student each graduation may be chosen to graduate With Highest Distinction. Requirements for these honors are listed below.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduation With Distinction</span><span class="generated-style"> shall be awarded to students earning at least 60 credit hours in residence at UNL who are in the 90th percentile of those graduating in the prior twelve month period or who have a minimum 3.6 cumulative GPA.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduation With High Distinction</span><span class="generated-style"> shall be awarded to students in the top half of those who meet the qualifications for graduation with distinction and have a minimum 3.8 cumulative GPA.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduation With Highest Distinction</span><span class="generated-style"> may be awarded by selection of the faculty to a student who meets the qualifications for graduation with high distinction and has also demonstrated outstanding professional excellence through creative work.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">International Studies Programs</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">China.</span><span class="generated-style"> The College of Architecture has a formal agreement for an exchange of faculty and students with the Northwest Institute of Architectural Engineering at Xian, People’s Republic of China. This exchange program was initiated in 1989.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Dublin, Ireland.</span><span class="generated-style"> During the fall semester, qualified students in the Department of Architecture can elect to study in Dublin, Ireland. Under an agreement with the Dublin Institute of Technology, students have an opportunity to complete one semester of their requirements toward a degree at UNL.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Hannover, Germany.</span><span class="generated-style"> During the spring semester, qualified students in the fourth or fifth year of the BSD program can elect to study in Hannover, Germany. Under an agreement with Hannover University, students have an opportunity to complete one semester of their requirements toward a degree at UNL.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Clermont-Ferrand, France.</span><span class="generated-style"> During the spring semester, qualified students in the fourth or fifth year of the BSD program can elect to study in Clermont-Ferrand, France. Under an agreement with the university, students have an opportunity to complete one semester of their requirements toward a degree at UNL.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">London, England.</span><span class="generated-style"> During each spring semester, qualified students may elect one semester of resident studies in London, England. The program offers students enrolled in the architecture (5th or 6th years), interior design (4th year), or landscape architecture (4th year) programs the opportunity to study urban and architectural design in a cross-cultural and comparative manner. Under the direction of a faculty member in either the architecture, interior design, or landscape architecture programs, the program is annually accommodated by a wealth of historic and modern case materials with cooperative assistance from educators and practicing professionals in the London area. Stephan Rienke (AIA, RIBA) serves as adjunct professor to the College and provides invaluable professional and cultural assistance to visiting UNL faculty and students.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Tianjin, China.</span><span class="generated-style"> During each fall semester, qualified students may elect a semester of resident studies in Tianjin, China. The program offers students enrolled in the architecture (5th or 6th year) or landscape architecture (5th year) the opportunity to study design in an urban environment with cross-cultural influences. Under the direction of a faculty member of either architecture or landscape architecture, the program offers students a rich experience. Working with the urban design and planning office of KX International Design and Planning.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Monteverde, Costa Rica.</span><span class="generated-style"> During the summer 3-week pre-session, the Community and Regional Planning Department offers a 3-credit advanced field studies course in Costa Rica, covering basic field techniques in environmental, social and economic aspects of sustainable community planning in developing regions and sensitive environments.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Senior Check/Degree Audit</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Senior and Professional Check and Application for Degree</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">During the last semester of the third year of study, senior checks are to be initiated by the student and reviewed by the student’s adviser. The senior check forms are maintained by the adviser and filed in the students’ advising folders.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must complete senior checks with their advisers and, after the adviser signs off on it, submit them to the program office for final processing and approval during early registration for their last semester in the BSD program.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A similar procedure applies to students in the MArch and BLA programs. The professional check will be initiated in the student’s first year in the program. The final check, with their adviser and submittal to the program office for processing and approval, should occur during the early registration period for the last semester in the MArch program.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in both the BSD and MArch degree programs must also file a graduation notice with the Credentials Office early in the semester in which they intend to graduate. Failure to meet the published deadline will delay graduation one full term.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Substitutions and Waivers</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students wishing to propose a course substitution in their curriculum of study must petition the Professional Program Committee by completing a substitution form. The substitution form should be filled out in consultation with your academic adviser. All proposals must include a detailed explanation for the substitution. The student’s adviser must review and sign the completed form before it can be submitted to the Professional Program Committee. It is very important that these procedures be followed for an expeditious response to the proposal. Substitutions must be approved before enrolling in a substitute course.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are advised the Professional Program Committee meets once a month, and will not consider any substitution proposals without a completed form and explanation signed by their adviser. The process to obtain a course substitution is lengthy and can not be accomplished at the “eleventh hour” to compensate for poor academic planning.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Copies of the substitution form are available in the program office.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Internships</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Architecture Internship</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">An internship program is available to students who have completed the BSD or its equivalent before or during the 5th and 6th year of the Professional Program in Architecture. Academic credits will be given (up to 6 hours) for this internship experience. Students will be required to apply for acceptance into the program and will be monitored by the program’s internship coordinator.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Interior Design Internship</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All students enrolled in the interior design program need to complete an approved internship as part of their professional requirements. Students are not eligible for an internship until they are enrolled in, or have completed, IDES 351 Interior Design Studio 2.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Landscape Architecture Internship</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students enrolled in the landscape architecture program are eligible to complete an approved internship as a part of their professional requirements. Academic credit will be given (up to 6 hours) for this internship experience. The internship program is available to students who have completed the BSD program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Planning Internship</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The community and regional planning program recommends that students without previous work experience in planning complete a field internship as part of the MCRP program. The internship involves a training period of actual service in a public or private organization.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The field experience component of the MCRP program provides an excellent means for students to augment and expand their planning skills, to more closely examine their career aspirations, and to evaluate their academic progress. Internships provide students with unique learning experiences that are impossible to replicate in the classroom. Many internships provide financial assistance for students while they are in school and often facilitate their search for employment after graduation. The internship component of the MCRP program also is an important vehicle for fulfilling the public service mission of the community and regional planning program, the College of Architecture, and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">ACE REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Achievement-Centered Education (ACE)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The University of Nebraska–Lincoln requires all students receive a broad general education as part of their academic experience. This requirement translates into the obligation of all students to fulfill the requirements of the ACE program. Information about the ACE program may be viewed at ace.unl.edu.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">English</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">It is of vital importance that architects, landscape architects, and interior designers be able to express themselves clearly and concisely. As a matter of routine, architects and interior designers are called upon to prepare reports, papers, or specifications in which clarity and precision are essential. For this reason, a student is required to do more than meet the English composition course requirement. In daily oral and written work the student must demonstrate an acceptable skill in the use of effective English. The dean may require students who fail to meet acceptable standards to do additional work in English composition or speech communication. Each instructor is expected to bring to the dean’s attention the students who need additional work.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are expected to take ENGL 101 plus ENGL 151. Or they may take ENGL 150 plus ENGL 151. ENGL 186, 187 and 192 may not be used to satisfy the freshman English composition requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the architecture program are required to receive credit for MATH 106. Courses taken as deficiencies to qualify for MATH 106 will not apply as credit toward their degree. Students in landscape architecture are required to take either MATH 106 or STAT 218 to fulfill their mathematics requirement. Students in the interior design program are required to take either MATH 203 or STAT 218 to fulfill their mathematics requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">BULLETIN RULE </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Degree Time Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students will be required to complete course work for their degree within a ten year period from the time they are admitted into the professional program in the third year.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Hours Required for Graduation </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">BSD in Architecture – 129 hours</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">BSD in Interior Design – 129 hours</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">BSD in Landscape Architecture – 129 hours</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grading Appeals</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student wishing to appeal a grade should contact his or her professor for clarification first before an appeal can be filed. If the dispute cannot be resolved with the instructor it is recommended that the student meet with their adviser to get clarification on the appeals process. Appeals are only considered where it can be demonstrated that prejudice or capricious treatment influenced the grade received by the student.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Having exhausted these avenues, a student may then choose to make a formal appeal. The appeal is in the form of a written statement from the student to the program chair. The chair will then forward the letter to the Faculty Affairs Committee. The deadline for filing a grade appeal (which includes a written statement from the student) is 30 calendar days after the first day of classes of the next regular semester (fall or spring). Appeals filed after the deadline will not be heard.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Incomplete Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Incompletes for students in the pre-professional program shall be granted only for reasons outlined in the policy statement adopted by the University Senate. See the UNL </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Schedule of Classes</span><span class="generated-style"> for the complete text.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Incompletes given to students in the professional program are granted at the discretion of the faculty awarding the grade. The faculty and student together must file an incomplete form in the department office to register the anticipated completion date and the grade that will be registered if the work is not completed by that time.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Architecture students will be allowed a maximum of two weeks to remove incompletes from courses that are prerequisites to classes in which they are currently enrolled or they will be administratively dropped from those courses.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Scholastic Standing </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The following scholastic standards have been established to maintain the level of quality for students enrolled in the architecture program: </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Professional Program, Architecture, Landscape Architecture and Interior Design</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the first year are required to maintain both a semester and cumulative grade point average at or above 2.0. The standard rises to a grade point average of 2.6 in the second year. Admission into the third year of all programs requires a cumulative grade point average of 2.6. The College places students who fail to meet these standards on academic probation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Third and Fourth Year, Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the third and fourth year of the BSD program are required to meet two parallel academic standards. First the student must maintain a semester grade point average of 2.6 to remain in good academic standing. The program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation. Further, students whose GPA for the academic year is between 2.6 and 3.0 are required to submit their studio work for review by the Student Affairs Committee for determination of continuance in the program or repetition of the year’s studio sequence.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Third and Fourth Year, Interior Design and Landscape Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the third and fourth year of the BSD program are required to maintain a 2.6 cumulative grade point average to remain in good academic standing. The program also requires that students earn a grade of a C or higher in all required courses. The program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Fifth and Sixth Year, Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the MArch program are required to maintain a semester grade point average of 3.0 to remain in good academic standing. The program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must earn at least a C (2.0) in all courses with an ARCH, IDES, or LARC prefix to earn credit toward their degree. Students will be required to retake all core required courses with a grade of C- or below, but will not be required to repeat courses that were taken as electives.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Removal of Grades C- or Below</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A professional student receiving a grade of C- or below for an overall course grade may remove that grade by retaking the same course again and receiving a higher grade. The higher grade will be used to compute the student’s cumulative grade point average, but all grades appear on the student’s transcript. The Pass/No Pass option cannot be used to remove these grades from the grade point average. Please be advised that once a course is no longer taught and no longer offered by the department it is not possible to remove a grade of C- or below through substitution or any other means.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Should you perform poorly in many courses during a semester it is possible to bankrupt the entire semester’s grades. This is a drastic action and should be pursued only after a visit with your adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">None of the required classes offered in the professional program are offered Pass/No Pass, but a maximum of 12 Pass/No Pass credit hours of humanities, social sciences, or open electives may be taken from departments outside the College of Architecture.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Courses taken outside the architecture, landscape architecture, or interior design programs to fulfill the upper level outside elective requirement at the 800 level or 900 level, with or without a 400-level counterpart, in a minor, collateral, or supporting area of work, can be taken on a Pass/No Pass basis.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Credit Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All professional credit earned at another university to be applied toward the master of architecture degree must be approved by the Professional Program Committee in cooperation with the program director. At least 50 percent of the required course work for the professional degree must be completed at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln with the exception of those students who are applying to enter the program with a four year degree from an accredited architecture program. No professional transfer credit will be accepted from a non-accredited architecture program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">College Evaluation of Transfer Credit</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">First time students transferring to the College of Architecture from a similar accredited professional degree program will be evaluated on the basis of the current undergraduate bulletin in effect at the time the student enrolls in the College of Architecture.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Process</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The program director will select and identify those courses that are applicable to the professional program in architecture, interior design, and landscape architecture programs. The College of Architecture will not accept courses for transfer which are below a 2.0 on a 4-point scale.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Evaluation of Technical and Nonaccredited Transfer Credits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who desire to transfer credits from technical or nonaccredited colleges must have architecture credits evaluated by the director and/or appropriate program representatives. Non-architecture credits will be evaluated by the appropriate university department.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Evaluation of Graphics, Design, and Production Drawing Credit</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Transfer credit for graphics, basic and architectural, landscape architecture, and/or interior design work and production drawings will not be granted until the student’s work has been reviewed by the architecture, landscape architecture, or interior design program director. Allowable transfer credit in the design, production drawings, and graphics areas, whether the grades presented are C, B, or A, will be determined from this review and the student placed accordingly.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Confirmation procedure:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. It is the student’s responsibility to initiate this task,</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. The student procedure is to obtain the confirmation form from the program office and to seek review of appropriate materials, and</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. A “portfolio review” will determine confirmation of credit. This review will be done by the appropriate faculty member or committee.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Evaluation of General Education Credits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Transfer students who have formally applied for admission will have their academic credits evaluated by the University Office of Registration and Records and the College of Architecture. The College will evaluate all hours submitted on an admission application but reserves the right to reject any of these credits.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Clarification and Appeal</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The student who has questions about or wishes to appeal the initial College evaluation of his or her transfer credit should contact the program office. If the evaluation is not satisfactorily resolved, the student has the right to register an appeal with the Student Affairs Committee of the architecture, landscape architecture, or interior design programs.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Independent Study</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Credit hours earned through independent study (ARCH 398, 498, 598 and 898; LARC 398, 498, 598; and IDES 398, 498, 898) need to be formally arranged with the faculty member supervising the work prior to registration for those credit hours. This is accomplished through completion of the Independent Study Contract available in the program office. It must have the signature of the faculty sponsor and be filed with the program office in order to be valid.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are limited to a total of </span><span class="basic-text-bold">9 credit hours </span><span class="generated-style">of independent study over the course of their academic career in the professional program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Other College Degree Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Off-Campus Programs</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Architecture recognizes the need for some students to pursue their pre-architecture, pre-landscape architecture, and pre-interior design studies at other institutions. Up to two semesters (30 semester credit hours) of off-campus study should cause minimal delay in students’ educational timetables if courses can be selected from the following list and are approved by the College of Architecture. Students are encouraged to coordinate their off-campus pre-architecture, pre-landscape architecture, and pre-interior design programs with the College of Architecture.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Recommended Courses</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Art Studio elective (10 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Calculus (5 hrs) for pre-architecture/landscape architecture or Statistics (3 hrs) for pre-interior design/landscape architecture</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">English Composition electives (6 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Humanities and Social Sciences electives (9 hrs) </span><span class="list-ital">See UNL ACE requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Physics (4 hrs) for pre-architecture or Natural Science (4 hrs) for pre-interior design</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Speech (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DEGREES &amp; MAJORS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Organization and Degrees</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Architecture consists of four academic programs: architecture, interior design, landscape architecture, and community and regional planning. Architecture, interior design, and landscape architecture all have a two year pre-professional program followed by professional degree programs. In architecture, it is a four year program in which students get a bachelor of science in design (BSD) degree and the professional master of architecture (MArch) degree. The landscape architecture program is three years in which students receive a BSD followed by the professional bachelor of landscape architecture (BLA) degree. The interior design program is two years and culminates in the professional BSD degree. The community and regional planning program is exclusively a graduate degree program.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Both architecture and interior design have post professional MS research degrees and architecture has a PhD degree program with the College of Education and Human Sciences.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Community and Regional Planning</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The community and regional planning program offers the two-year professional master of community and regional planning degree which is fully accredited by the Planning Accreditation Board (PAB).</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">GRADUATE STUDENT INFORMATION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Graduate and Professional Teaching and Research Assistantships</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Architecture has several teaching and research assistantships available each year. Students accepted into the master of architecture program, MS, and PhD/EdD programs or those who are in the process of making application for admission to the master of architecture program are encouraged to apply for these assistantships. A brief letter of interest and qualifications plus completed graduate assistantship recommendation forms (which are available in the Architecture Program Office) should be sent to the architecture program before March 1 of each year for consideration for the fall semester and November 1 for the spring semester.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Course Hold for Professional Credit</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Seniors who have obtained in advance the approval of the architecture program director may receive up to 12 hours credit towards their MArch degree prior to the completion of their BSD degree provided the following conditions are met:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">they are above the courses required for their BSD degree;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">are taken under the 500 number; and</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">are taken in the calendar year prior to the receipt of the BSD.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MINORS &amp; AREAS OF SPECIALIZATIONS OFFERED</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Landscape Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The landscape architecture minor is administered through the College of Architecture’s landscape architecture program. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The minor in landscape architecture is designed to provide a basic understanding of the nature of the profession of landscape architecture. Knowledge of landscape architecture history, theory, and context provides a useful addition to a student in any of the University disciplines.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The minor is open to all UNL students. Entrance to the minor is by application, grade review,and permission of the program director, Kim L. Wilson. Contact Leslie Brehm, admissions coordinator (232 Architecture Hall West, 402-472-4065, lbrehm2@unl.edu) for the application.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Required Courses 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 240 Architecture History &amp; Theory I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CRPL 400 Intro to Planning 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 101 Survey of Landscape Architecture: Approach, Process, &amp; Practice 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 200 Landscape &amp; Environmental Appreciation 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 340 History &amp; Theory in Contemporary Landscape Architecture 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 461 Urbanism 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LARC 498 Topics in Landscape Architecture 1</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">OTHER </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Ownership of Class Work</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Significant student work will be retained on file by the program each semester as a necessary record for accrediting purposes and periodic display. Other student work must be retrieved by the student no later than seven working days past the end of the semester.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Architecture is not responsible for storing or returning student work. In addition, all padlocks left on lockers will be cut, and the materials in the lockers confiscated after completion of spring semester.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Nonprofessional Master of Science Degree and PhD/EdD Degrees</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The scholarly-nonprofessional master of science degree is a scholarly, research-based curriculum. For more information, please see the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Graduate Bulletin.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Community and Regional Planning Program</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair:</span><span class="generated-style"> Kim Wilson, 302 Architecture Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors: </span><span class="generated-style">Scholz, Wilson</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Cantarero</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Nam, Tang</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors Emeritus:</span><span class="generated-style"> Fischer, Hulvershorn</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The community and regional planning program offers the master of community and regional planning (MCRP) degree; however, several courses in the Department are also offered at the advanced undergraduate level and are available to undergraduate students in all majors.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The master of community and regional planning degree program provides preparation for professional planning practice in the public, private, and nonprofit sectors.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Planning is an interdisciplinary problem-solving profession that influences a broad range of future-oriented decision making. Planners work with individuals, groups, and organizations to formulate plans, policies, and strategies through which desired change can be achieved. Planners utilize a wide variety of methods and techniques to identify problems and needs and to formulate plans of action that effectively address those needs. Planners often need to accommodate differing viewpoints in the process of formulating desirable and compatible plan and policy recommendations.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The MCRP degree program emphasizes the understanding of the importance of and interrelationships among human resources, natural resources, socio-cultural characteristics, economic activity, political and institutional roles, and characteristics of the natural and built environment. The program provides students with a sound foundation in planning theory, methods, process, and application–a background which enables graduates to formulate, initiate, and coordinate a broad range of planning and development actions.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Master of Community and Regional Planning Curriculum</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The MCRP degree program requires completion of 48 graduate credit hours, 24 of which are in a required core curriculum.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Required Core Courses</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CRPL 400/800 Intro to Planning 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CRPL 802 Planning Theory 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CRPL 804 Legal Aspects of Planning 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CRPL 810 Qualitative Techniques for Planners 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CRPL 830 Intro to Computers in Planning 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CRPL 840 Planning Methods &amp; Analysis 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CRPL 900 Professional Planning Practice 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CRPL 990 Planning Studio 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Required Core Course Credit Hours 24</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Elective Courses</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition to the required core courses in the MCRP program, students must complete at least 9 graduate credit hours in an area of concentration and 15 graduate credit hours in one of the following three tracks: 1) 9 credit hours of approved electives, a 6-credit-hour masters thesis, and an oral examination; 2) 9 credit hours of approved electives, a 6-credit-hour professional project, and an oral examination; or 3) 15 credit hours of approved electives and a comprehensive written examination.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The written comprehensive examination for track 3 is scheduled and administered by the Department typically no more than once each semester. The examination must be taken on one of the examination dates established by the Department. The examination covers the student’s program of studies for the MCRP degree, as approved by the Department and the Office of Graduate Studies.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Five areas of concentration are offered by the Department: 1) physical planning, 2) social planning, 3) environmental planning, 4) economic development planning, and 5) transportation planning. Courses in these concentrations are offered inside and outside the Department. Other individualized areas of concentration may be proposed and pursued by students, subject to approval by the Department graduate committee.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Dual Degree Programs</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The MCRP degree may be pursued within either of three dual degree programs at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">One program is the MCRP/JD dual degree program, offered in collaboration with the College of Law. This program enables completion of both the MCRP degree and the juris doctor degree in a four-year period.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The second program is the MCRP/MArch dual degree program, offered in collaboration with the architecture program. This program enables completion of both the MCRP degree and the master of architecture degree in a three-year period. This program is intended for persons who hold the bachelor of science in design (BSD) or equivalent undergraduate degree.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The third program is the MCRP/MS-CE (transportation specialization) in collaboration with the Department of Civil Engineering. Persons interested in the dual degree programs should inquire with the chairperson of the community and regional planning program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Interdepartmental Programs</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The community and regional planning program cooperates with other disciplines in offering courses for three designated interdepartmental areas: 1) Water Resources Planning and Management, 2) Public Policy Analysis and Program Evaluation, and 3) Environmental Studies. Persons interested in these areas in conjunction with the MCRP degree should consult with the chair of the community and regional planning program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the Master of Community and Regional Planning Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students with diverse undergraduate, graduate, and professional backgrounds are encouraged to enter the MCRP degree program. No prior course work in planning is required. However, applicants are expected to have completed at least one course each in statistics, economics, and the social sciences, with a grade of C or better. The Department graduate committee may specify how the applicant is to make up deficiencies in any of these areas.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Applications for admission to the MCRP degree program are accepted on a rolling, continuing basis. Students may be accepted for admission in the fall, spring, or summer sessions.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Completed application materials must be submitted directly to the Office of Graduate Studies, University of Nebraska–Lincoln via the GAMES Web site and must include the following:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. On-line Graduate School Application: https://wam.unl.edu/stuapp/WebAppController?appld=webapp&amp;featureld=grad</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. A $50 application fee</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Research Goals</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Resume</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Official transcripts for all undergraduate and graduate study submitted to:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Office of Graduate Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">University of Nebraska–Lincoln</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">1100 Seaton Hall</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Lincoln, NE 68588-0619</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">6. Three letters of recommendation submitted via the instructions listed on GAMES</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">7. TOEFL Scores (international students only)</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">9. Graduate Record Examination (GRE) scores (recommended, not required)</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
