<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Arts &amp; Sciences Main Page</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="arts-sciences-main-page">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="college-name"><span class="generated-style">College of Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">David C. Manderscheid, Ph.D., Dean and Professor of Mathematics</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Debbie Minter, Ph.D., Associate Dean for Academic Programs and Associate Professor of English</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Sunil Narumalani, Ph.D., Associate Dean for Faculty and Professor of Geography</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Gregory Snow, Ph.D., Associate Dean for Research and Professor of Physics and Astronomy</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Alecia Kimbrough, M.B.A, Assistant Dean for Business and Finance and Staff</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">William Watts, M.A., Assistant Dean for Advising Services</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">For additional information or questions, contact:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">William Watts</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Assistant Dean for Advising Services</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">107 Oldfather Hall</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PO Box 880330</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Lincoln, NE 68588-0330</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">402/472-4190</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Mission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">UNL’s College of Arts and Sciences empowers students with a world-class education befitting the State of Nebraska’s comprehensive, land-grant, research university. Our teaching in the humanities and social and natural sciences gives students the knowledge and skills they need to succeed in an increasingly complex, diverse and interconnected world. We are equally committed to increasing knowledge through research endeavors and creative activities at the leading edge of human experience, and our expertise in service and outreach furthers the interests of Nebraska, the nation, and the world. Our guiding principle is that teaching, research, and service are inextricably intertwined, enhancing our ability to provide an outstanding education.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Careers</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College’s comprehensive liberal arts education empowers graduates to pursue unlimited career possibilities. Arts and Sciences students develop strengths as communicators, critical thinkers, problem solvers and lifelong learners who can see the big picture. They have the skills and adaptability that employers universally value. Graduates are not only prepared to effectively compete in the real world, but they have a solid foundation to excel in an increasingly global, technological and interdisciplinary world.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Often there is no direct link between a student’s academic major and career choice. A student does not have to be a biology major to become a physician. Not all history majors become historians. An English major could become a lawyer.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Arts and Sciences students have access to a powerful network of faculty and advisers dedicated to providing information, support and hands-on experience through engaging course work, co-curricular activities and service opportunities to aid in the career-planning process.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College works closely with Career Services, 230 Nebraska Union, to help students with their career planning. In addition, the chief advisers provide information and guidance.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">College Admission </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The entrance requirements for the College of Arts and Sciences are the same as the UNL General Admission Requirements. Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL. These conditions are explained under “Removal of Deficiencies.”</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition to these requirements, the College of Arts and Sciences strongly recommends a third and fourth year of languages. Four years of high school language will exempt students from the College of Arts and Sciences’ language requirement. It will also allow students to continue language study at a more advanced level, and give more opportunity to study abroad.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Students</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To be considered for admission a transfer student, Nebraska resident or nonresident, must have an accumulated average of C (2.0 on a 4.0 scale) and a minimum C average in the last semester of attendance at another college. Transfer students who graduated from high school January 1997 and after must also meet the UNL General Admissions Requirements. Those transfer students who graduated before January 1997 must have completed in high school 3 years of English, 2 years of the same foreign language, 2 years of algebra, and 1 year of geometry. Transfer students who have completed less than 12 credit hours of college study must submit either the ACT or SAT scores.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Ordinarily, hours earned at an accredited college are accepted by the University. The College, however, will evaluate all hours submitted on an application for transfer and reserves the right to accept or reject any of them. Sixty-six is the maximum number of hours the University will accept on transfer from a two-year college. Transfer credit in the major must be approved by the major adviser on a Request for Substitution Form to meet specific course requirements, group requirements, or course level requirements in the major. At least half of the hours in the major field must be completed at the University regardless of the number of hours transferred.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Arts and Sciences will accept no more than 15 semester hours of C- and D grades from other schools. The C- and D grades cannot be applied toward requirements for a major or minor. This policy does not apply to the transfer of grades from UNO or UNK to UNL. All D grades may be transferred from UNO or UNK, but they are not applicable to a major or minor.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Readmitted Students</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students readmitted to the College of Arts and Sciences will follow the requirements stated in the bulletin for the academic year of readmission and reenrollment as a degree-seeking student in Arts and Sciences. In consultation with advisers, a student may choose to follow a bulletin for any academic year in which they are admitted to and enrolled as a degree-seeking student at UNL in the College of Arts and Sciences. Students must complete all degree requirements from a single bulletin year. Beginning in 1990-1991, the bulletin which a student follows for degree requirements may not be more than 10 years old at the time of graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">You must remove entrance deficiencies before you can graduate from the College of Arts and Sciences. For students entering August 1997 or later and who graduated from high school January 1997 and after, courses taken to remove a high school core course deficiency may not be counted toward either the major, minor, or college degree requirements. They may be counted in Achievement-Centered Education (ACE) and the “electives” categories in meeting degree requirements. The most common deficiencies are in foreign languages and mathematics.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Removing Foreign Language Deficiencies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student who has had fewer than two years of one foreign language in high school will need 130 semester hours as a minimum for a degree from the College of Arts and Sciences. A student will also need to complete the “102” course in a language to clear the deficiency and the “202” course to complete the college graduation requirement in language.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Removing Mathematics Deficiencies</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. A deficiency of one year of geometry can be removed by taking two high school geometry courses by Independent Study or by completing a geometry course from an accredited community college or a four-year institution. Neither of these options count for college credit.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. A deficiency of the first year of algebra can be removed by taking two high school Algebra I courses through Extended Education (not for college credit).</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. A deficiency of the second year of algebra can be removed by taking MATH 95C (not for college credit) or MATH 100A (may be taken for college credit but does not apply toward graduation).</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. A student whose deficiency is the additional (fourth) year of mathematics that builds on algebra must successfully complete one of the following: MATH 101, MATH 102, MATH 103, STAT 218, ECON 215, EDPS 459, or SOCI 206 or an equivalent course at another institution.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Removing Other Deficiencies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Contact the Arts and Sciences Advising Center for specific courses to remove other entrance deficiencies.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADVISING</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Academic Advising</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All students in the College of Arts and Sciences are assigned to an academic adviser o advising center based on their academic interests. Advisers will help students plan their academic careers, understand degree requirements, and identify courses to meet those requirements. Specially trained advisers from the Arts and Sciences Advising Center counsel all incoming freshmen during New Student Enrollment.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the College who have declared a major will be assigned a chief major adviser in their major field of study. Students who have declared a pre-health or pre-law area of interest will work with advisers in the Advising Center, specifically trained to guide students preparing to enter a professional school. All students in the College should also meet with professional advisers in the Arts and Sciences Advising Center to answer questions related to choosing majors and minors, understanding degree requirements and degree audits, completing paperwork, understanding deadlines, adding/dropping courses, and planning for graduation. The professional advisers in the Advising Center are available on an appointment and/or walk-in basis Monday through Friday. Students who have questions should contact the Advising Center.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For complete and current information on chief advisers for majors, minors, and pre-health areas and pre-law, contact the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall, 402-472-4190, http://ascweb.unl.edu/advisingcenter.html.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Exclusions &amp; Restrictions</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Course Exclusions</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">No credit for graduation is allowed for non-college level courses or for courses that deal primarily with the development of skills including the following:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Driver training education</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Industrial arts (including courses concerned primarily with manual skills, tools, machines, or industrial processes and design) For example at UNL: ALEC 101, ALEC 103, ALEC 104, ALEC 109, ALEC 122, ALEC 201, ALEC 203, ALEC 204, ALEC 205, ALEC 242, ALEC 253, ALEC 301, ALEC 340.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Agricultural education (credit is allowed for ALEC 102, ALEC 202, ALEC 337, ALEC 494, ALEC 496; or ALEC courses cross-listed with departments from which Arts and Sciences applies credit for graduation)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Any introduction computer course training in DOS, word processing, spread-sheets, data base management, or other business software packages (CSCE 137 or BSAD 150 or AGRI 271)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">MATH 100A</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Course Restrictions</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students majoring in the College of Arts and Sciences my use courses in the following areas toward their degree within the following limits:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maximum 12 hours religion courses that advocate the doctrine or belief of a particular faith. This 12 hour limit does not apply to religious studies courses whose method and approach conforms to the standards of critical scholarship in the academic study of the humanities and social sciences.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maximum 15 hours of C- and D grades are transferable from colleges outside UNL. The C- and D grades cannot apply to majors or minors. All C- and D grades from UNO or UNK may be transferred but they are not applicable to a major or minor.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maximum 66 hours accepted from a community college.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maximum 30 hours of clinical courses.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maximum 16 hours of applied music lessons and/or music ensemble.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maximum 4 hours Activity PE, Athletic Practice, or Basic Military Science with a maximum of 1 credit hour per semester.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maximum 12 hours total from any combination of the following areas:</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">First Aid (NUTR 170 at UNL)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Orientation and Study Skills. For example at UNL: ASCI 107; BIOC 101; BIOS 150, BIOS 160; EDPS 150, EDPS 209; FDST 107; NRES 101; NUTR 150; PSYC 100, 150; TEAC 210; VBMS 101</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Military Science, Naval Science, or Aerospace Studies. (This restriction does not apply to cross-listed courses between military science, naval science, or aerospace studies and departments of the College of Arts and Sciences.)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maximum 15 hours athletic coaching</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Any restrictions noted specifically by departments. Credit towards the degree may be earned in only one course, including honors sections, from each group of courses listed below:</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 313 or BIOS 314</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 105, CHEM 109, CHEM 111, CHEM 113, CHEM 195</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 116 or CHEM 221</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 251 and more than 1 cr of CHEM 263</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 471 or CHEM 481</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 252A or CSCE 155N</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 252A or ENGM 112</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 252A or ELEC 121</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 340 or CSCE 480</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 210 or ECON 211 and ECON 212 </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 215, CRIM 300, EDPS 459 or STAT 218 (was STAT 180)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FREN 201 and FREN 202, or FREN 210</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">GEOL 100 or GEOL 101 or GEOL 101H</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">GEOL 103 or GEOL 105</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">GERM 201 and GERM 202, or GERM 210</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">GREK 102 or GREK 151</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">LATN 102 or LATN 201</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 101 and/or MATH 102 or MATH 103</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 104 or MATH 106</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 300</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 301</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 340 or ENGM 480</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 141 or PHYS 151</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 151 or MSYM 109</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 205 or CRIM 251</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 209 or CRIM 355</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 311 or CRIM 337</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 474 or CRIM 413</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">SPAN 201 and SPAN 202, or SPAN 210</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">For transfer students, course exclusions and restrictions will be determined on the Evaluation of Transfer credits.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Credit by Examination</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Through study or experience that parallels a University of Nebraska–Lincoln course, a regularly enrolled University student may feel prepared to pass an examination on the course content of a specific course for credit in that course. To apply for credit, a student should:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Consult with the department chair.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Obtain a Credit by Examination Form at the Records Office, 107 Canfield Administration Building, 472-3649. Current enrollment in the University must also be verified.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Secure the approval signature from the department chair, instructor, and the dean of the student’s college. The Dean’s signature can be obtained in the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Secure the bursar’s receipt for payment of the appropriate fee per course for credit by examination. Currently, the fee is one-half the resident tuition rate.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Present the completed form to the instructor designated by the department chair. The instructor will give the examination and report the results on the Credit by Examination Form to the Admissions Office, Alexander Building, 472-0130.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Examination for credit through UNL departments may be taken only by currently enrolled students. A student is not permitted to receive credit by examination in a course which is a prerequisite for a course already taken unless the course and its prerequisites cover essentially different subject matter.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Arts and Sciences also gives credit for the subject and general examinations of the College Level Examination Program (CLEP) and the Advanced Placement (AP) Program administered by the College Entrance Examination Board. See the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall, for current policy regarding CLEP and AP examinations.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Dual Degrees</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Two Degrees from Arts and Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A graduate who holds the bachelor of arts degree may earn the bachelor of science degree by completing an additional year of work in residence taking at least 30 more semester hours of course work for a minimum of 155 hours. The student must complete all degree requirements for the second degree, including the scientific base. A graduate who holds the bachelor of science degree may earn the bachelor of arts degree by completing another year of work in residence taking at least 30 semester hours of additional course work for a minimum of 155 hours. The student must complete all degree requirements for the second degree.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Two Degrees from UNL</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A graduate who holds a bachelors degree from another college at UNL may earn the bachelor of science or bachelor of arts degree from the College of Arts and Sciences by completing an additional year of work in residence taking at least 30 more semester hours of course work beyond the first degree. The student must complete all degree requirements for the arts and sciences degree.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Intercollege Studies</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">With College of Fine and Performing Arts: </span><span class="generated-style">A student in the College of Arts and Sciences pursuing a bachelor of arts degree with a major in arts and sciences may also complete a bachelor of arts major in the College of Fine and Performing Arts. In addition, a student in the College of Fine and Performing Arts pursuing a bachelor of arts degree with a major in fine and performing arts may also complete a bachelor of arts major in the College of Arts and Sciences. The student must complete all degree requirements and a major in the home college and a second bachelor of arts major in the visiting college.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">With College of Journalism and Mass Communications:</span><span class="generated-style"> A student in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications pursuing a bachelor of journalism degree may also complete a second major in the College of Arts and Sciences. In addition to ACE and College of Journalism and Mass Communications requirements, students will be expected to meet all College of Arts and Sciences distribution requirements and major requirements. Because students choosing this option will not be earning a degree from arts and sciences, they will not be eligible for arts and sciences-based scholarships and aid, but they will be eligible for consideration for Phi Beta Kappa.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Students with a Non-UNL Degree</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style"> A transfer student who has received a bachelors degree from another institution must complete at least 30 hours of credit in residence at UNL in addition to transfer credit. Students must complete at least half of their major course work including 6 hours above 299 in their major, and 15 of the 30 hours required above 299 in residence. The student must complete all degree requirements for the arts and sciences degree.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Honors Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Arts and Sciences encourages qualified students to participate in the University Honors Program. In addition, several departments of the College of Arts and Sciences offer special honors sections of regular freshman courses to meet the needs of students with superior preparation in those subjects. In some departments such students may then progress more rapidly into advanced courses.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Recognition</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Dean’s List</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College recognizes students for academic achievement during the fall and spring semesters by placement on the College Dean’s List. To qualify for the Dean’s List in the College of Arts and Sciences, students must complete 12 credit hours of course work (courses must be started and completed in one semester) by the census date of the grade reports and attain a minimum semester grade point average of 3.7. The following do not qualify as part of the 12 credit hours: Pass/No Pass credit, transfer hours, removals of incompletes, and grade changes submitted after the census grade reports.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Degrees with Distinction</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In recognition of outstanding academic excellence, the College recommends the bachelors degree With Distinction, With High Distinction, and With Highest Distinction. The recommendations are made by the Committee on Student Academic Distinction, Awards and Appeals. To be recommended for distinction, candidates must fulfill the specific criteria for Highest Distinction, High Distinction, or Distinction, in addition to all of the general criteria and procedures applicable to all distinction classifications.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Information regarding specific criteria and forms are available in 107 and 1223 Oldfather Hall and can also be found on the college Web site at http://ascweb.unl.edu/students/distinction.html.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">College Scholarships</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Arts and Sciences Dean’s Office, in conjunction with the College Committee on Academic Distinction and Awards for Students and the program adviser (when appropriate), chooses recipients for College scholarships. This group also recommends students for certain scholarships awarded by the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid. To be considered for any college scholarships the Scholarship Application for Current Undergraduate Students must be completed. The application is only available on-line in MyRed from November to February 1st each academic year.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Many of the College scholarships require demonstrated financial need. To provide information regarding financial need, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), found at www.fafsa.ed.gov, must be completed. A complete list of the scholarships awarded by the College and further information about the college scholarship process can be found on the college Web site at http://ascweb.unl.edu/students/scholarships.html.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Departmental Scholarships</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">There are numerous awards and scholarships earmarked for specific majors, all of which are administered individually by the departments in the College of Arts and Sciences. To find out which scholarships you might be eligible for and the procedures for applying, please contact the appropriate Department for information.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">University Scholarships</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid administer numerous funds. Consideration for these scholarships is based on submission of the Scholarship Application for Current Undergraduate Students. This is an on-line application that can be found at www.unl.edu/scholfa/.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Other Scholarships</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Edythe Wiebers International Studies Program Scholarship. Application forms can be obtained from the International Affairs Office or can be found on the International Affairs Web site at http://www.unl.edu/iaffairs/study_abroad/scholarships.shtml.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship. Contact Dr. Patrice Berger in the University Honors Program for more information and application materials.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Fulbright-Hays Fellowships</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">These fellowships are awarded annually and selections are made by various national committees from the applications submitted. Graduating seniors interested in applying should contact:</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Institute for International Studies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">University of Nebraska</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">1237 R Street</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">PO Box 880221</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Lincoln, NE 68508-0221</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Campus deadline for submitting applications is October 1.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Students who wish to pursue graduate work should inquire in the Office of Graduate Studies, 301 Canfield Administration Building, concerning scholarships, fellowships, and assistantships open to graduating seniors.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">International Study/Study Abroad</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">International Opportunities</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College supports the following international interdisciplinary programs offering a major or a minor: African American and African Studies, Asian Studies, European Studies, International Studies, and Latino and Latin American Studies. Departments and faculty in the College of Arts and Sciences are also actively involved as sponsors, teachers and leaders in many of the numerous Study Abroad programs administered by the Office of International Affairs.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College encourages students to study overseas as part of their University experience. The University participates in exchange and several formal study abroad programs world-wide and Nebraska Semester Abroad. International Affairs can arrange for individuals to earn University credit for study at foreign universities. The International Affairs Office has study abroad, overseas opportunities, and flights and study tours programs that assist students wishing to participate in overseas studies.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Senior Check/Degree Audit</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In the term after which a student has completed 85 hours, Graduation Services in Registration and Records, 109 Canfield Administration Building, will perform a “senior check.” Students will be provided with a copy of the senior check. This check will inform students about the requirements that still need to be fulfilled in their chosen degree program. Questions about remaining requirements should be directed to the chief adviser for the major or the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each student who expects to receive a diploma must file an application of candidacy for the diploma in the Office of Registration and Records, 107 Canfield Administration Building. Announcements about deadline dates are posted on bulletin boards and the online University calendar, and are printed in the Daily Nebraskan.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are responsible for informing the Office of Registration and Records of their graduation plans, including their addresses; the manner in which they are completing their requirements such as by correspondence, by clearance of incompletes, by enrollment at another institution, by taking special examinations, etc.; and of any later revision of such plans. Failure to follow this procedure may cause postponement of graduation until a later semester.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Classification of Students</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Freshman Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The first-year program is designed to give students a broad basis for future study. It includes English composition, a foreign language, and courses in science, the humanities, social sciences or mathematics for a total of about 12-15 hours per semester. During this year, the student will progress toward meeting University ACE requirements and will have an opportunity to explore various areas of study while starting or deciding upon a major. With the help of New Student Enrollment and their academic advisers, students choose specific courses according to their needs and interests.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Class Standing</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Sophomore Standing.</span><span class="generated-style"> For admission to sophomore standing a student must have completed all of the College entrance requirements, earned a minimum of 27 semester hours of credit, and attained a total grade point average of at least C.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Junior Standing.</span><span class="generated-style"> A student has junior standing after meeting the requirements for sophomore standing and completing 53 semester hours of credit.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Senior Standing.</span><span class="generated-style"> A student has senior standing after meeting the requirements for junior standing and completing 89 semester hours of credit.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Substitutions and Waivers</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Special requests concerning degree programs, including inquiries about exceptions to degree requirements, waivers, and substitutions should be made to the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">ACE REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Consistent with the mission and values of the University, ACE is based on a shared set of four institutional objectives and 10 student learning outcomes. The ACE program was approved by faculty in all eight undergraduate colleges and endorsed by the Faculty Senate, the student government, and the Academic Planning Committee in January 2008 for implementation in the fall 2009. ACE aligns with current national initiatives in general education.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Key characteristics of ACE demonstrate the benefits of the program to students:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students receive a broad education with exposure to multiple disciplines, critical life skills and important reasoning, inquiry, and civic capacities. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ACE is simple and transparent for students, faculty and advisers. Students complete the equivalent of 3 credit hours for each of the ten student learning outcomes.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students connect and integrate their ACE experiences with their selected major. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students can transfer all ACE certified courses across colleges within the institution to meet the ACE requirement and any course from outside the institution that is directly equivalent to a UNL ACE-certified course. Courses from outside institutions without direct equivalents may be considered with appropriate documentation for ACE credit (see academic adviser). </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">ACE allows faculty to assess and improve their effectiveness and facilitate students’ learning.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">ACE Institutional Objectives and Student Learning Outcomes</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To meet the ACE Program requirement, a student will complete the equivalent of 3 credit hours for each of the ten ACE Student Learning Outcomes (a total of 30 ACE credit hours). See the ACE Web site at: http://ace.unl.edu for the most current information and the most recently certified courses.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">BULLETIN TO USE</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must fulfill the requirements stated in the bulletin for the academic year in which they are first admitted to and enrolled as a degree-seeking student at UNL. In consultation with advisers, a student may choose to follow a subsequent bulletin for any academic year in which they are admitted to and enrolled as a degree-seeking student at UNL in the College of Arts and Sciences. Students must complete all degree requirements from a single bulletin year. Beginning in 1990-1991 the bulletin which a student follows for degree requirements may not be more than 10 years old at the time of graduation. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">College General Education Requirements </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Arts and Sciences distribution requirements are designed to further the purposes of liberal education by encouraging study in several different areas. Courses satisfying these requirements may impart specialized knowledge or broadly connect the subject matter to other areas of knowledge. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All requirements are in addition to University ACE requirements. A student may not use a single course to satisfy more than one of the following five distribution requirements. A student cannot use a single course to satisfy both an ACE outcome and a College distribution requirement. Independent study or reading courses and internships cannot be used to satisfy distribution requirements. To see a complete list of excluded courses, run a degree audit through MyRed.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Courses from interdisciplinary programs will count in the same area as courses from the home/cross-listed department(s).</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science (19 credits + Language)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">A. Written Communication: 3 hours </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">To be selected from courses approved for ACE outcome 1.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">B. Natural, Physical and Mathematical Sciences: 7 hours </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">From two different departments, including at least one lab science course from the natural or physical sciences. Lab courses may be selected from biochemistry, biological sciences, chemistry, geology, meteorology, physics and astronomy, geography, and anthropology*. All other courses select from: biochemistry, biological sciences, chemistry, computer science and engineering, geology, meteorology, mathematics, physics and astronomy, and statistics.</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">* See degree audit or College of Arts and Sciences adviser for approved geography and anthropology lab courses, approved non-lab psychology courses, or courses cross-listed with an Arts and Sciences department.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">C. Humanities: 6 hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">From two different departments, select from classics*, English, history, modern languages and literatures*, philosophy, and religious studies*.</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">*Language courses numbered 210 or below apply only for the foreign language requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">D. Social Sciences: 3 hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Select from anthropology*, communication studies, geography*, political science, psychology*, or sociology</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">*See degree audit or College of Arts and Sciences adviser for list of natural/physical science courses in anthropology, geography, and psychology that do not apply as social sciences.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">E. Languages Classical and Modern: 0-6 hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Fulfilled by the completion of the 6-credit-hour second-year sequence in a single foreign language in one of the following departments: Classics and religious studies, modern languages and literatures, or anthropology. Instruction is currently available in Biblical Hebrew, Chinese, Czech, French, German, Greek, Japanese, Latin, Omaha, Russian, and Spanish. A student who has completed the fourth-year level of one foreign language in high school is exempt from the languages requirement. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Scientific Base</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition to University ACE requirements and the College distribution requirements, the bachelor of science degree requires students to complete 60 semester hours in mathematics and natural sciences, including:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. At least one of the following quantitative courses: CSCE 235, MATH 104, PHIL 211, or any mathematics or statistics course numbered 106 or above, except MATH 200 and MATH 201.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. At least one natural or physical science course and at least 1 credit of laboratory work, taken as part of a course or separately, from the following departments: biochemistry, biological sciences, chemistry, geosciences, or physics and astronomy, ANTH 242/ANTH 242L, GEOG 155, and the following geography techniques courses also apply: GEOG 317, GEOG 412, GEOG 414, GEOG 415, GEOG 417, GEOG 418, GEOG 419, GEOG 420, GEOG 422, GEOG 425, and GEOG 432. Other courses that may be applied toward the 60 hour total include courses in actuarial science for which calculus or above is a prerequisite and up to 12 hours of scientific and technical courses offered by other colleges with approval of the academic adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Foreign Languages/Language Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Languages Exemption Policy</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">UNL and Arts and Sciences will exempt or waive students from the UNL entrance requirement of two years of the same foreign language or from the College’s language distribution requirement based on documentation only. The following are the options and procedures for documentation:</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">High School Transcripts</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. For the University entrance requirements, students must show an official high school transcript with two or more years of the same foreign language in high school.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. For the College of Arts and Sciences College Distribution Requirements Area 5 languages requirement, students must show an official high school transcript with four or more years of the same foreign language in high school, or show evidence of graduation from a non-English-speaking foreign high school.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. For the College of Arts and Sciences College Distribution Requirements Area 5 languages requirement, students whose native language is not English must show English as a Second Language study on an official high school transcript. Four years of ESL at the high school level (9th, 10th, 11th and 12th grades) will be the basis for a waiver of the Area I Language requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Proficiency Examination at UNL</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. For the University entrance requirement, students who do not have transcript documentation can request to take a proficiency exam in the language. (This is not the same test as the Modern Languages Placement Exam.) However, UNL will provide testing only in the languages it teaches. Currently, these languages are:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">French</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">German</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Spanish</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Russian</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Czech</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Japanese</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Chinese</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">The Department of Modern Languages will oversee the test and provide written documentation to the Admissions Office that the student has passed the proficiency test at the 102 level.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. For the College of Arts and Sciences College Distribution Requirements Area 5 requirement, the Department of Modern Languages will oversee the test at the 202 level. If the student passes the test, the department will sign the College Request for Waiver form and indicate the level of proficiency. The form is then forwarded to the Arts and Sciences Advising Center for approval.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Distance Education</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. For the University entrance requirement, students without transcript documentation who claim proficiency in a language not taught at UNL, have the option of seeking out a distance education program in languages. If the student completes the equivalent of 102 from an approved distance education program, the student will meet the UNL entrance requirement. The student must have the course work approved before he/she takes/completes the course as equivalent to 102 by the modern languages department. The student then completes the course and has the distance education program send the transcript to the Admissions Office.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. For the College of Arts and Sciences College Distribution Requirements Area 5 languages, the student can seek out a distance education program and complete the equivalent of the 202-level course. The student must submit the request on the College Request for Substitution form and have the course work approved by the Department of Modern Languages and the assistant dean for Advising Services. The student then completes the course and has the distance education program send the transcript to the Admissions Office.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Third Language Option</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">If a student demonstrates knowledge of two foreign languages at the 102 level, the College of Arts and Sciences may consider waiving two semesters of the four semester College Distribution Requirements Area 5 languages requirement. If this waiver were granted, the student would then be required to complete 101 and 102 in another (3rd language) at UNL.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Hours Required for Graduation</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A minimum of 125 semester hours of credit is required for graduation from the College of Arts and Sciences. Students who enter the College with fewer than two units of one foreign language from high school are required to take 130 semester hours as a minimum for the bachelor of arts or bachelor of science degree. A total grade point average of at least 2.0 is required.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Restrictions on C- and D Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College will accept no more than 15 semester hours of C- and D grades from other schools except for UNO and UNK. No transfer C- and D grades can be applied toward requirements in a major or a minor. No UNL C- and D grades can be applied toward requirements in a major or a minor.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Privilege</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">University regulations for the Pass/No Pass (P/N) privilege state:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The Pass/No Pass option is designed for your use by seeking to expand your intellectual horizons by taking courses in areas where you may have had minimal preparation.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">For students in Arts and Sciences, the University regulations for Pass/No Pass apply as follows:</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Neither the P nor the N grade contribute to your GPA.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. P is interpreted to mean C or above.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. A change to or from a Pass/No Pass may be made until mid-term (1/2 of the course).</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. The Pass/No Pass or grade registration cannot conflict with the policy of the professor, department, college, or University governing the grading option.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Changing to or from Pass/No Pass requires using the MyRed system to change the grading option or filing a Drop/Add form with the Registration and Records, 107 Canfield Administration Building. After mid-term of the course, a student registered for Pass/No Pass cannot change to a grade registration unless the Pass/No Pass registration is in conflict with the policy of the professor, department, college, or University governing Pass/No Pass. The Pass/No Pass grading option is not available to students on academic probation unless the course is offered only on a Pass/No Pass basis.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">6. The Pass/No Pass grading option cannot be used for the removal of C- or D or F grades.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass privileges in the College of Arts and Sciences are extended to students according to the following additional regulations:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Pass/No Pass hours can count toward fulfillment of University ACE requirements and college distribution requirements up to the 24-hour maximum.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Many Arts and Sciences departments and programs do not allow courses in the major or minor to be taken Pass/No Pass; students should refer to the department’s or program’s section of the bulletin for clarification. By college rule, departments can allow up to 6 hours of Pass/No Pass in the major or minor.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Freshmen and sophomores may enroll for no more than 6 hours of P/N work per semester.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Departments may specify that certain courses of theirs can be taken only on a P/N basis.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. The college will permit no more than a total of 24 semester hours of P/N grades to be applied toward degree requirements. This total includes all Pass grades earned at UNL and other U.S. schools. </span><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> This 24-hour limit is more restrictive than the University regulation.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Students who wish to apply P/N hours to their major and minor(s) must obtain approval on a form that is available in the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Grading Appeals</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student who feels that he/she has been unfairly graded must ordinarily take the following sequential steps in a timely manner, usually by initiating the appeal in the semester following the awarding of the grade:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Talk with the instructor concerned. Most problems are resolved at this point.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Talk to the instructor’s department chairperson.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Take the case to the Grading Appeal Committee of the department concerned. The Committee should be contacted through the department chairperson.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Take the case to the College Grading Appeals Committee by contacting the Dean’s Office, 1223 Oldfather Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Level Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Courses Numbered above 299</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Thirty of the 125 (or 130) semester hours of credit must be in courses numbered above 299. Of the 30 hours above 299, 15 hours (1/2) must be completed in residence at UNL. </span><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> ALEC 397E and ALEC 397K do not count toward these 30 hours.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Graduate Courses</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Seniors in the University who have obtained in advance the approval of the dean for Graduate Studies may receive up to 12 hours credit for graduate courses taken in addition to the courses necessary to complete their undergraduate work, provided that such credits are earned within the calendar year prior to receipt of the baccalaureate. For procedures, inquire at the Office of Graduate Studies.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Course work taken prior to receipt of the baccalaureate may not always be accepted for transfer to other institutions as graduate work.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Residency</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Residency Requirement and Open Enrollment and Summer Independent Study Courses</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must complete at least 30 of the 125 (or 130) total hours for their degree at UNL. Students must complete at least 1/2 of their major course work including 6 hours above 299 in their major, and 15 of the 30 hours required above 299 in residence. Credit earned during study abroad may be used toward the residency requirement if students register through UNL and participate in prior-approved study abroad programs. UNL open enrollment and summer independent study courses count toward residence.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DEGREES &amp; MAJORS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Degree Programs and Areas of Study</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Arts and Sciences offers curricula leading to the degrees of bachelor of arts and bachelor of science.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Cross-listed Course Policy</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Arts and Sciences recognizes cross-listed courses as equivalent for the purposes of degree requirements. Therefore, a course taken under one department which is cross-listed can be used in all the majors and minors affected by all the cross-listings of the course.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for the Bachelor of Arts Degree</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who wish to graduate with a bachelor of arts degree must complete the College graduation requirements, the University ACE requirements, the College of Arts and Sciences distribution requirements, the requirements for a major, and the requirements for a minor or minors if required by the major.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for the Bachelor of Science Degree</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The bachelor of science degree is characterized by a strong prescriptive major, an essential scientific base, and the inclusion of a general liberal education as an important aspect of the degree. Requirements for the BS are the same as those for the BA, with the following exceptions:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. The major must include between 50-70 credit hours including required collateral courses in other departments. For students who wish to acquire two majors in two departments, the departments will be asked to make some accommodation for the students.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. In addition to the College of Arts and Sciences distribution requirements, the bachelor of science degree requires students to complete 60 semester hours in the natural and mathematical sciences. (See scientific base information under College General Education Requirements.)</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Areas of Study for the Major</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are advised to choose a major before the end of the sophomore year to avoid extending the period of time necessary to complete the degree. By gaining a deeper knowledge of one field, the student will further his or her general liberal education, prepare for a career in his or her specialization, and possibly advance to graduate work or a professional program. It is sometimes possible, through careful planning, for students to complete more than one undergraduate major. Students should consult their advisers about this possibility. The student who majors in more than one field will be assigned to an adviser in each field.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">If a student receives a grade lower than C in a course in his or her chosen major, it will not count toward the major.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must complete at least 1/2 of the course work in their chosen major field in residence including 6 hours above 299, regardless of the number of hours transferred.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Areas of Study</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Arts and Sciences offers study toward the major and minor in many areas. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A summary of the major areas of study for degrees offered by the College of Arts and Sciences includes:</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Actuarial Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Anthropology </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Biological Chemistry </span><span class="list-ital">(BS only)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Biological Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Classical Languages </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Classics &amp; Religious Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Communication Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Computer Science </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Economics </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">English</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Environmental Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Ethnic Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">European Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Film Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">French</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Geography</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Geology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">German</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Great Plains Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">History</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Individualized Program of Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">International Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Latin American Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Medieval and Renaissance Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Meteorology-Climatology </span><span class="list-ital">(BS only)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Philosophy</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Physics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Plant Biology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Political Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Psychology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Russian</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Sociology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Spanish</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">University Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Women’s and Gender Studies</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MINORS &amp; AREAS OF SPECIALIZATIONS OFFERED</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">The Minor</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The requirement of minors is variable within the College and depends upon the student’s major department. Some departments require either one or two minors, and other departments require none. Two minor plans are available.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A.</span><span class="generated-style"> Students must complete at least 6 hours of course work in a Plan A minor in residence regardless of the number of hours transferred.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan B.</span><span class="generated-style"> Plan B minors consist of either two minors which are completed with fewer hours in each subject than required for a single Plan A minor or two majors and one Plan B minor. Hour requirements for individual Plan B minors are stated in each department’s or program’s listings.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Minors in Other Colleges</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student with a major leading to a bachelor of science or bachelor of arts degree in the College of Arts and Sciences who wants to obtain a minor in another college should use the following procedure in making his/her request:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. In consultation with the student’s major adviser, prepare the list of courses required for the other college’s minor as indicated in the bulletin.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Submit the College-Degree-Major-Adviser Change form to the College of Arts and Sciences Advising Center prior to the deadline for submitting the application for graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Students who have questions related to the minor after it is declared should consult an adviser in the college through which it is offered. The minor will be recorded on the student’s transcript.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Minors Offered by Arts and Sciences </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Actuarial Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Aerospace Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">African American Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">African Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Anthropology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Archaeology Archeology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Asian Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Biological Chemistry</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Biological Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Chicano Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Classical Languages</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Classics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Communication Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Community and Regional Planning</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Computational Biology and Bioinformatics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Computer Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Conflict and Conflict Resolution</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Czech</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">English</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Environmental Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Ethnic Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">European Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Film Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">French</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Geography</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Geology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">German</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Global Security Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Great Plains Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Greek</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">History</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Humanities in Medicine</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Individualized Program of Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">International Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Japanese</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Judaic Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Latin</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Latin American Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer/Sexuality Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Medieval and Renaissance Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Meteorology-Climatology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Native American Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Philosophy</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Physics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Plant Biology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Political Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Psychology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Public Policy Analysis and Evaluation </span><span class="list-ital">(Certificate)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Religious Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Russian</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Sociology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Spanish</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Statistics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Textiles, Clothing and Design</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">University Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Women’s and Gender Studies</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Health, Pre-Law, and Combined Degree Programs</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Chiropractic</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Clinical Laboratory Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Clinical Perfusion Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Cytotechnology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Dental Hygiene</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Dentistry</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Law</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Medicine</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Mortuary Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Nursing</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Occupational Therapy</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Optometry</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Pharmacy</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Physical Therapy</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Physician Assistant</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Radiation Science Technology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Veterinary Science</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
