<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Undergrad_Studies</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="undergrad-studies">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="college-name"><span class="generated-style">Office of Undergraduate Studies</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Rita C. Kean, Ph.D., Dean, 201 Seaton Hall, 472-1185</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Gail Hackwith, Administrative Assistant</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Kerry L. Julian, Administrative Technician</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">http://www.unl.edu/ous</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Office of Undergraduate Studies (OUS) is responsible for coordinating, administering, and advocating for campus-wide policies, programs and initiatives affecting undergraduate education and the retention of UNL students, particularly those activities outside the academic degree programs and individual majors. The Division of General Studies and University Honors Program report directly to the Dean. Other reports and responsibilities include the following areas. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">General Education Requirements (ACE)</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Nancy Mitchell, Ph.D., Director of General Education, 325 Seaton Hall, 472-5647</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">http://www.unl.edu/ous/ace/</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Consistent with the mission and values of the University, ACE is based on a shared set of four institutional objectives and 10 student learning outcomes. The ACE program was approved by faculty in all eight undergraduate colleges and endorsed by the Faculty Senate, the student government, and the Academic Planning Committee in January 2008 for implementation in the fall 2009. ACE aligns with current national initiatives in general education.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Key characteristics of ACE demonstrate the benefits of the program to students:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students receive a broad education with exposure to multiple disciplines, critical life skills and important reasoning, inquiry, and civic capacities.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ACE is simple and transparent for students, faculty and advisers. Students complete the equivalent of 3 credit hours for each of the ten student learning outcomes.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students connect and integrate their ACE experiences with their selected major.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students can transfer all ACE certified courses across colleges within the institution to meet the ACE requirement and any course from outside the institution that is directly equivalent to a UNL ACE-certified course. Courses from outside institutions without direct equivalents may be considered with appropriate documentation for ACE credit (see academic adviser).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ACE allows faculty to assess and improve their effectiveness and facilitate students’ learning.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">University Honors Program </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Patrice Berger, Ph.D., Director/Chair, University Honors Program, 118 Neihardt, 472-5425</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">http://honors.unl.edu/</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The University Honors Program is a special program for which formal application is required. Students admitted to the Program have ACT composite scores in the upper 20s or above, are in the top ten percent of their high school class and, most importantly, have demonstrated a commitment to intellectual curiosity and academic excellence. Acceptance into the Program is based on a comprehensive evaluation of the student’s potential by the Honors Program Faculty Committee. All the undergraduate colleges support the Program, and honors courses apply to college and major requirements. A special notation is made on the transcript and diploma upon graduation from the University Honors Program to inform graduate schools and employers of the student’s superior performance. Honors Program students may request housing in the honors residence, the Neihardt Residence Center.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students admitted to the University Honors Program have access to all honors courses taught at UNL without additional authorization.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> 189H Freshman Seminar is an honors course offered by participating academic departments. Required of all students in the University Honors Program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">University Academy</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">http://academy.unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">University Academy (UACA) courses provide a formal campus-wide recognition and support for curricular initiatives that cross disciplinary and administrative boundaries.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Academy courses are team-taught by faculty from several academic areas who contribute their disciplinary perspectives to the course content. Instructional teams typically consist of two or more faculty from different disciplines and, ideally, from different colleges.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Rather than being taught in linear segments or sequential disciplinary modules, Academy courses integrate material throughout the semester. All faculty members participate in class sessions to provide a variety of perspectives in class conversations and to serve as resources for interdisciplinary discussions. In the Academy setting, faculty model “learning” on topics and conversations guided by faculty participants from disciplines other than their own.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">UACA course learning objectives teach students to: 1) think critically about a topic; 2) evaluate topics from multiple points of view and recognize interdisciplinary connections; 3) engage students in self-learning; and 4) appreciate the collaborative environment in which learning, for both novices and more mature participants, takes place.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Division of General Studies </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Jennifer Nelson, Interim Director, 33 Canfield Administration Building, 472-3605</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">http://www.unl.edu/dgs/</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Undergraduate Research (UCARE) and Fellowship Advising </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Laura Damuth, Ph.D., Director of Undergraduate Research and Fellowship Adviser, 201 Seaton Hall, 472-5024</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">http://www.unl.edu/ucare/</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">http://www.unl.edu/fellowships/</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Institutional Assessment </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Jessica Jonson, Ph.D., Director of Institutional Assessment, 201 Seaton Hall, 472-3899</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">http://www.unl.edu/ous/faculty_resources/assessment.shtml</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Jackie Gaughan Multicultural Center /OASIS </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">André Fortune, Director, 1505 “S” Street, 472-5500</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">http://www.unl.edu/oasis/</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Academic Transfer </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">JoAnn Moseman, M.A., Academic Transfer Coordinator, 201 Seaton Hall, 472-9455</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">http://www.unl.edu/ous/student_programs/transfer.shtml</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">E.N. Thompson Forum on World Issues </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Katie B. Cervantes, Forum Coordinator, 201 Seaton Hall, 472-0074</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">http://www.unl.edu/ucomm/enthompson/</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Learning/Scholars Communities </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">AnnMarie Williams, M.S., Academic Learning Community Coordinator, 201 Seaton Hall, 472-0698</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">http://www.unl.edu/learncom/</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">WHT Thompson Scholars </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">June Griffin, PH.D., Faculty Coordinator, 343 Andrews, 472-1886</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Demoine Adams, Academic Program Coordinator, Jackie Gaughan Multicultural Center, 1505 “S” Street, 472-5500</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">http://www.unl.edu/wht/</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
