<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Business Administration Main Page.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="business-administration-main-page">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="college-name" xml:lang='en-us'>College of Business Administration</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Dean: Donde Plowman</span></p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Dean:</span> Kathleen Farrell</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Dean:</span> Gordon Karels</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Dean:</span> D’vee Buss</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Dean:</span> Rik Berrera</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website:</span> http://cba.unl.edu</p>
			<p class="content-box-m-p" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSION</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>College Admission </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The entrance requirements for the College of Business Administration are the same as the UNL General Admission Requirements.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies </p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Students admitted to the College of Business Administration with core course deficiencies will be advised to remove these deficiencies according to the <span class="basic-text-ital">Office of Admissions’ Removal of Core Course Admission Deficiency</span> guidelines.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">College-level course work taken to remove deficiencies MAY NOT be used to meet degree requirements in CBA.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADVISING</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Academic Advising </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Dean’s Office for Undergraduate Programs</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students are encouraged to obtain information and advice through the Dean’s Office for Undergraduate Programs, CBA 114.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The staff, which includes both professional staff and peer advisers, are well trained, easily accessible, and can provide academic counseling and answer questions on specific degree requirements, transfer credits, prerequisites, changes in major or college, waivers, procedures or policies, and other available campus services.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Professional Staff:</span> Mark Davis, Bede Bolin, Jeff Burdic, Betsy Klemme, Eric Einspahr, D’vee Buss, Megan Friesen, Alison TePoel, Erin Burnette</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Career Services.</span> While staff and faculty advisers may assist in career advising, the College works closely with the University’s Career Services Office to provide assistance to CBA students. Students should schedule time each semester to visit with the Career Coaches located in CBA 139. </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Student Responsibility </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The University of Nebraska–Lincoln and the College of Business Administration are committed to providing effective academic advising to students.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Academic advisers are available to assist students in assessing educational goals, planning programs of study, understanding program requirements, and following policies and procedures. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students are ultimately responsible for fulfilling all the requirements of the curriculum in which they are enrolled. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students are responsible for initiating advising contacts and preparing for advising sessions.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The mentoring relationship between academic advisers and students is confidential and is strengthened by advisers’ listening with understanding to student concerns. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students are expected to take responsibility for a successful university experience and effective advising session. For this to occur the student must:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Participate in New Student Enrollment, priority registration programs, and any other University/College programs designed to enhance the student-life experience.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1"><span class="no-style-override-1">Review My Degree Audit Report (DARS) each semester and each time you make a change to your schedule. Schedule appointments with advisers well in advance of priority registration and at other times as needed. Keep appointments and be punctual, or call to reschedule if necessary.</span></li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Read the appropriate sections of the Undergraduate Bulletin.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Identify specific questions to address prior to meeting with an adviser and be prepared to do long-term planning.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Provide honest and accurate information to the adviser regarding any concerns, questions, special needs, deficiencies or barriers that might affect academic success.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Follow academic policies and procedures and meet academic calendar deadlines (e.g. registration, fee payment, degree audit, filing for degree, etc.).</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Know and complete program requirements.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Seek assistance from the various student support services provided by the University and College.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Immediately notify the University of any change in postal address, email address, and/or phone number.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Academic Load</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">A maximum of 19 credit hours (including online and independent study courses through On-line and Distance Education) may be taken each semester without special permission from the Dean’s Office for Undergraduate Programs. The summer sessions have a maximum load of 15 hours. The three week session limit is 3 hours and each five week session has a 7 hour limit.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">A minimum of 12 credit hours must be taken each semester to remain a full time student.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>To complete the requirements for a degree in eight semesters, a student must earn an average of 15 credit hours each semester. Most students need a minimum of two hours of preparation for every hour in class, so a schedule of 15 credit hours is actually equivalent to a 45 hour a week job (15 classroom + 30 preparation).</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The student who must work or one who may need additional study time, should plan to take a lighter load and consider taking some summer sessions or an extra semester or two to complete the work required for a degree. In the event that a student’s cumulative grade point average falls below 2.5, a lighter academic load may be required.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Course Exclusions and Restrictions</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>No credit for graduation is allowed for non-college level courses or for courses that deal primarily with the development of skills including the following:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">BSAD 150</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">LIBR 110</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">MATH 100A or any math credit lower than 100A</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Driver training education</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Industrial arts (including courses concerned primarily with manual skills, tools, machines, or industrial processes and design)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Vocational and Adult Education classes</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Any introductory computer course training in word processing, spread-sheets, data base management, or other business software packages</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Certificate program credit (such as the Nebraska Bankers Association, CEP credit, etc.)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Courses required for the business minor (for non-business students) cannot be used towards the BSBA degree. This would include ACCT 200, ECON 200, BLAW 300, FINA 300, MNGT 300, MRKT 300.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Maximum/Minimum hour restrictions:</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Maximum semester hour restrictions:</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Transfer Hour Restrictions</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">14 hours of military credit</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">9 hours Pass/No Pass (allowable only as electives)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">The college limits the transfer of credit into the BSBA degree to 60 semester hours of credit from two-year schools and international schools. Students who have transferred 60 hours of credit from these institutions may not go back and enroll in additional transfer hours after they begin their studies in the College of Business Administration.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">90 hours from four-year institutions</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">15 hours of business course work may transfer towards the Business Core and Business Electives from another institution. Actuarial Science students may additionally transfer STAT 462 and STAT 463.</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">With a maximum of 3 hours in BCI</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">With a maximum of 3 hours in BCA</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Minimum semester hour restrictions: </p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">120 hours of applicable degree credit for the degree</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">60 hours of business course work</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">45 hours of business core course work completed at UNL (with further BCI and BCA restrictions)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">75% of <span class="basic-text-bold">required</span> business course work must be taken at UNL (with further BCI and BCA restrictions) </li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Other Course Restrictions/Exclusions:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1"> Any restrictions noted specifically by departments. Credit towards the degree may be earned in only one course, including honors section from each group of courses listed below:</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ACCT 200 or ACCT 201 and ACCT 202</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 312 or AGRO 360</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 313 or BIOS 314</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 105, CHEM 109, CHEM 111, CHEM 113, CHEM 195</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 116 or CHEM 221</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 251 and more than 1 cr of CHEM 263</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 471 or CHEM 481</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 252D or CSCE 155N</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 252D or ELEC 121</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 340 or CSCE 480</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 200 or ECON 211 and ECON 212 </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 210 or ECON 211 and ECON 212 </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 215, CRIM 300, EDPS 459 or STAT 218</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>FREN 201 and FREN 202, or FREN 210</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>GEOG 150 and/or GEOG 152 or GEOG 155</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>GEOL 100 or GEOL 101 or GEOL 101H</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>GEOL 103 or GEOL 105</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>GERM 201 and GERM 202, or GERM 210</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>GREK 102 or GREK 151</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>LATN 102 or LATN 201</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 101 and/or MATH 102 or MATH 103</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 104 or MATH 106</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 200 or MATH 300</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 201 or MATH 301</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 340 or MECH 480</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 141 or PHYS 151</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 151 or MSYM 109</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>SOCI 205 or CRIM 251</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>SOCI 311 or CRIM 337</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>SOCI 474 or CRIM 413</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>SPAN 201 and SPAN 202, or SPAN 210</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>SPAN 300 or SPAN 303 and SPAN 304</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Maintenance of 2.5 cumulative grade point average </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">A 2.5 cumulative grade point average is required to enroll in ACCT 201 and ACCT 202, ECON 215, BLAW 371, BLAW 372, FINA 361, MNGT 331, MNGT 360, MNGT 475, MNGT 350/SCMS 350, MRKT 350, and MRKT 341. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Grades of C or better are required to transfer courses from other institutions. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Grades of C or better in specified prerequisite course work (i.e. MATH 101 to enroll in MATH 104; ACCT 201 to enroll in ACCT 202, etc.)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">University of Nebraska System transfers that are not included in the course work identified above require a D- or better grade. Students at system schools need to remember that their grade point transfers with them.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Credit Rules</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Credit by Examination </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">Credit by examination</span> is generally not available for courses offered by the College of Business Administration, with the exceptions noted.</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Students who feel substantial work experience should satisfy course requirements may approach the appropriate school or department for possible credit by exam options. Credit, however, is not simply given for work experience.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">BSAD 150 Credit by Examination</span> is offered several times each year for BSAD 150. See http://cba.unl.edu/academics/busadmin/resources/bsad150/index.aspx </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">The College Level Examination Program (CLEP)</span> is available for students wishing to test out of Macro- and Microeconomics and Principles of Marketing and several non-business courses. Additional information can be found at: http://www.unl.edu/ous/student_programs/credit.shtml </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Dual Degrees</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students may obtain a dual degree by simultaneously enrolling in and completing requirements in the College of Business Administration and another college on campus. Students will need to consult with both colleges to ensure all requirements are satisfied.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Secondary Teaching Certification</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Teaching certification is granted by the Nebraska Department of Education after completing endorsement requirements in one or more approved area(s). A list of approved endorsement areas can be found under “Endorsements” in the College of Education and Human Sciences section. Given the number of elective course options in the business program and with early planning and careful selection, students may integrate the certification requirements with CBA graduation requirements. Students interested in obtaining a teaching certificate should contact the director of the College of Education and Human Sciences Student Services Center, 105 Henzlik Hall.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Honors Program </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override-1">The College of Business Administration participates in the Nebraska Honors Program both in and out of the classroom. University Honors Program courses are accepted to fulfill degree requirements and the College works with departments and individual students to design upper-level course work of specific interest to honors students. For additional information concerning the program, see “Nebraska Honors.”</span></p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In addition to the university-wide Nebraska Honors Program, the College of Business Administration also offers the CBA Honors Academy and the Jeffrey Raikes School of Computer Science and Management, two cohort-based honors programs. Students accepted into these cohort-based programs are also automatically accepted into the Nebraska Honors Program. </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CBA Honors Academy</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The CBA Honors Academy is a unique cohort-based program for high-ability students with demonstrated leadership potential. The goal of the Academy is to develop critical thinking, problem-solving and communications skills to prepare graduates to be strategic decision-makers and innovators. The Academy combines a rigorous curriculum (including approximately 40 credit hours of cohort-based courses), with leadership training, co-curricular activities and corporate involvement. Academy students will complete MNGT 475H Honors Business Policies and Strategies in place of the thesis requirement for the UNL Honors Program. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students interested in learning more about the CBA Honors Academy should call 402-472-2310, or visit the Academy website at http://cba.unl.edu/honorsacademy.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>CBA Honors Academy requirements differ from those listed in the bulletin. Students work closely with the Academy’s advisers on appropriate sequencing and enrollment in Academy-specific requirements.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The purpose of the Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management is to produce unique graduates who combine business knowledge and computing fundamentals for enterprise information and software systems. Graduates will be professionals who understand the multiple levels of new information systems and who become the technology sector’s innovators, product developers, entrepreneurs, chief information officers, and CEOs.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The program is designed to not only improve students’ ability to create information technology applications and solutions, but also the capacity to understand the implications of information technology for business and society. The program will produce graduates with high technical proficiency as well as a strong sense of the business problems and organizational needs that information systems are intended to serve.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students interested in learning more about the Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management program are encouraged to call 402-472-6000 or visit the program website at raikes.unl.edu.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management requirements differ from those listed in the bulletin. Students work closely with the program’s advisers on appropriate sequencing and enrollment in Raikes-specific requirements.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Student Recognition</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Dean’s List/Degrees with Distinction/Scholarships </p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Dean’s List</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The College recognizes students for academic achievement during the fall and spring semesters by placement on the College Dean’s List. To qualify for the Dean’s List, students must complete 12 or more credit hours for a grade (excluding hours with P, NP, NR and I marks) during the semester and attain a grade point average of 3.6 or higher.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Degrees with Distinction</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In recognition of outstanding academic excellence, the college recommends the bachelors degree <span class="basic-text-ital">With Distinction</span>, <span class="basic-text-ital">With High Distinction</span>, and <span class="basic-text-ital">With Highest Distinction</span>. Students are recommended for this honor by the Scholarship, Honors, and Awards Committee of the College. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>To be eligible for consideration students must:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">complete 45 credit hours for a letter grade (excluding Pass/No Pass marks) at UNL prior to the semester in which they graduate, and </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">must have completed 60 such credit hours at UNL at the time they graduate. </li>
			</ul>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>To determine the level of distinction, the Committee uses the cumulative grade point average based on all credit hours taken at UNL prior to the beginning of the term in which the student receives his or her degree. No specific cumulative grade point average is required but the honor is limited to approximately ten percent of the graduating class. This usually means a 3.8 (or higher) GPA. Students will be notified of the distinction, high, or highest distinction designation approximately one month before graduation.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>International Study/Education Abroad</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Education Abroad</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The College of Business Administration has several outstanding education abroad programs where students may enroll and complete course work for their degree requirements at a foreign institution or at an international site. Students should identify their intentions early in their program to ensure the appropriate sequencing and transfer of credit. More information can be found at: http://cba.unl.edu/studyabroad and http://educationabroad.unl.edu.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Nebraska at Oxford program</span> allows undergraduate students to study British political and economic policy at Oxford University during a 4-week summer program. Business students earn credit for ECON 466 (3 hrs) and ECON 467 (3 hrs); non-business students may also participate and earn credit for ECON 466 (3 hrs) and ENGL 386/THEA 386 (3 hrs). ECON 211 and ECON 212 must be complete prior to program participation for business students. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Senshu University in Japan</span> gives students an opportunity to study and earn 17 hours in business and Japanese language in Tokyo, Japan. Credit for BSAD 491 (up to 6 hours) may count for BSAD and IBUS majors, and 3 hours for MNGT, MRKT, and FINA majors. BSAD 491 credit for IBUS majors (or BSAD majors with an IBUS minor) can only be applied once toward the BSAD or IBUS course requirement and cannot be double counted between the two separate requirements. BSAD 491 credit not already applied to a specific major may count toward business elective, free elective, and/or upper-level elective hours and IBCR credit. Study abroad transfer rules do apply. The advisers in CBA 114 can explain how Senshu credit applies to specific business majors/minors, including the language credit options for IBUS majors. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Consortium of Universities for International Business (CIMBA)</span> offers summer and semester undergraduate courses and summer graduate courses in the Veneto region in Italy. Due to the extensive credit options available, students should reference an academic adviser or the website above for applicable degree credit. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">The France Business School (FBS), School of Business and Management (formally ESCEM) </span>in Poitiers, France, offers undergraduate courses in a variety of business areas, such as management, marketing and European business studies. Depending on the fall/spring semester options, students should reference the UNL Education Abroad Office and a CBA academic adviser for applicable degree credit options. Credit will be determined based through a pre-departure evaluation process. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Economic and Cultural Discovery in China</span> is a 3-week summer program visiting businesses and cultural sites in Shanghai, Beijing, and Hangzhou, China. Through this program, undergraduate students earn 3 hours of BSAD 491 and graduate students earn 3 hours of GRBA 896. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Other study abroad programs</span> are available in many other countries with many credit hour and semester options. Students should refer to http://educationabroad.unl.edu for more information.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Senior Check/My Degree Audit</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>My Degree Audit</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">To be prepared for an on-time graduation, students should continue to monitor their progress through My Degree Audit (DARS), which is a personalized report of degree requirements that can be accessed through MyRED. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Each semester, your degree audit will report where courses are being used to fulfill degree requirements, those completed, and courses yet to be taken. Students should check their degree audit each time they change their schedule.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Your degree audit will report the following message “ALL REQUIREMENTS COMPLETED–IN PROGRESS COURSES USED” at the beginning of the intended graduation semester if everything is in order for graduation. </li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Senior Check</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override-1"> In the term after which a student has completed 85 hours, Graduation Services (109 Canfield Administration Building) will perform a “senior check.” Students will be provided with a copy of the degree audit which informs students about requirements that need to be completed to receive the degree.</span></p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Graduation Requirements</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Each student who expects to receive a diploma must have a minimum 2.5 cumulative grade point average to file an application for degree candidacy. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">At the beginning of the semester in which the student is graduating, the student must file an application for the degree with Graduation Services, 109 Canfield Administration Building. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Announcements regarding graduation deadline dates are posted on campus bulletin boards and published in the <span class="basic-text-ital">Daily Nebraskan</span> and the College. DEADLINES ARE EARLY IN THE SEMESTER.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students are responsible for informing the Office of the University Registrar of the manner in which they are completing their requirements (i.e., by independent study, clearance of incompletes, enrollment at another institution, special examinations, etc.); and of any revision of such plans. In addition, any change in address, email, or phone number should be specifically directed to this office (and updated through MyRED) to avoid a postponement of graduation until a later semester.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Student Standing/Classification</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Second semester freshmen</span><span class="no-style-override-1"> who have completed MATH 104 (or higher) with a grade of “C” or better and have a cumulative 2.5 GPA over at least 14 credit hours earned at UNL, may enroll in ACCT 201 (which normally requires sophomore standing). Freshmen are also permitted to enroll in ECON 211 or ECON 212 upon completion of 12 hours of UNL credit.</span></p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Sophomore Standing.</span> For admission to sophomore standing, a student must have earned a minimum of 27 semester hours of credit. It is expected that students will have removed any entrance deficiencies by this point in the program and should maintain a 2.5 cumulative GPA to remain on sequence for graduation.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Junior Standing.</span> A student has junior standing after meeting the requirements for sophomore standing and completing 53 semester hours of credit. It is expected that students will maintain a 2.5 cumulative GPA to remain on sequence for graduation.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Senior Standing.</span> A student has senior standing after meeting the requirements for junior standing and completing 89 semester hours of credit. It is expected that students will maintain a 2.5 cumulative GPA to remain on sequence for graduation.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Substitutions and Waivers</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Curriculum and/or Policy Appeals</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override-1">The faculty of the College has established degree requirements and policies and procedures. Any exceptions to the rules (substitutions and/or waivers) are made as a written appeal to the faculty through the Undergraduate Committee of the College. This request can be made only in unusual circumstances and cannot serve as an excuse for not following college guidelines. Students should meet with an adviser in CBA 114 to discuss options, specific instructions, and procedures for consideration of an appeal.</span></p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Appeal</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students who believe they have received an unfair grade may take the following sequential actions to appeal a grade:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">The student must discuss the situation with the instructor involved.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">If no acceptable solution is reached, the student may file a written grade appeal with the Grade Appeal Committee of the specific department or school in the College within the first 20 days of the academic semester following receipt of the course grade. In making his or her appeal, the student must allege that the guarantees contained in Section II, Part B, of <span class="basic-text-ital">The Student in the Academic Community</span>, have been violated. The Committee may be contacted through the department chair or school director.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">If either the instructor or the student disagrees with the decision of the Grade Appeal Committee, a written appeal may be filed with the Collegiate Grade Appeals Committee, which may be contacted through the Dean’s Office for Undergraduate Programs.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Option Appeal/Late Withdrawal Appeal:</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Appeals to change the grade option in a course after the deadline, as well as any late withdrawal requests must be made in writing to the College Grading and Examinations Committee. Restrictions, options, and forms for either of these procedures may be obtained from the Dean’s Office for Undergraduate Programs, CBA 114. The College generally expects any appeal request to be made within a reasonable time frame.</p>
			<p class="content-box-m-p" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All students must fulfill the Achievement Centered Education (ACE) requirements. Information about the ACE program may be viewed at ace.unl.edu. Students may also use the Bulletin’s course search facility to search for ACE groups. Example: Enter ACE one in the search to generate a list of all possible ACE 1 courses.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Achievement-Centered Education—Ten Courses (normally 30 hours)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This is the university’s innovative, outcomes-focused general education component designed to enhance the undergraduate experience by providing broad exposure to multiple disciplines, complementing the major and helping students develop important reasoning, inquiry, and civic capacities.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Important rules to remember when selecting course work to meet this requirement:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">There are 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO) and at least one course, equivalent to 3 credit hours, must be taken for each of the 10 SLO’s.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Up to three ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO), 4-10, may be satisfied by work in one subject area;</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">ACE SLO’s must be satisfied by work in at least three subject areas;</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">No ACE course may satisfy more than one ACE SLO in a student’s program;</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">If an ACE course addresses two ACE SLO’s, the student decides which one of the two outcomes the course will satisfy in that student’s program. (My Degree Audit will make an automatic decision based on first course taken; first SLO needed.)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">As part of the college requirements of non-business and business courses, many courses will also work for ACE. Students should carefully review required course work with ACE options to make the best use of courses to fulfill both degree requirements as well as UNL ACE requirements.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="content-box-m-p" xml:lang='en-us'>BULLETIN TO USE </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students (including transfer students) must follow the Undergraduate Bulletin in effect when they <span class="basic-text-bold">enroll</span> in the College of Business Administration. Students who leave the college and return or those applying for ‘readmission’ to the College are subject to requirements in place at the time of their <span class="basic-text-bold">re-enrollment</span> in the College.</p>
			<p class="content-box-m-p" xml:lang='en-us'>COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Professional Enhancement Program (PrEP) (4 hours) </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Designed to prepare students for careers by helping them connect academic knowledge and professional skills to the internship/job search and workplace, the PrEP program consists of four required one hour courses. These courses are labeled BSAD 111, BSAD 222, BSAD 333, BSAD 444 and are offered across the four year curriculum. Raikes students complete this requirement as a part of their other courses.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>College General Education Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The curriculum requirements for the College consist of course work in three areas.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All course work (except electives and where otherwise noted) must be taken for a grade.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The three areas include the following:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Non-Business Requirements (NBR)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>– which consist primarily of College and University ACE (Achievement-Centered Education) course work </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Business Core</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>– Foundation (BCF), which also includes ACE 6 &amp; 8</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>– Intermediate (BCI)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>– Advanced-Major (BCA-M) </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>– Advanced-Capstone (BCA-C), (ACE 10) </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Electives </span></p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Non-Business Requirements (NBR)</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">(Most of the ACE requirements)</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Eight Courses (normally 24-26 hours)</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">All students in the College of Business Administration will take the following non-business courses (unless otherwise noted).</li>
				<li class="bullet-3">While NBR 1, 2, 7 and 8 identify specific ACE options to choose from or identify an ACE course specifically required for the College, NBR 3, 4, 5, and 6 allow for students to select courses according to their personal interests (and meet ACE 4, 5, 7, and 9).</li>
				<li class="bullet-3">Most students will take course work to fulfill these requirements during the freshman/sophomore year. However, if hours are still needed during the junior/senior year, there may also be options to ‘double count’ course work for NBR 3 (ACE 4) and/or NBR 6 (ACE 9) toward the major (BCA-M) or a minor. This is likely to be of most benefit to ‘transfer-in students’ due to the nature of the program and when ACE requirements are traditionally taken.</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">All course work for NBR must be taken for a grade.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NBR 1: Written Communication (ACE 1)</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-ital">Choose ONE of the following:</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGL 101 Writing: Rhetoric &amp; Reading</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGL 150 Writing: Rhetoric as Inquiry</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGL 151 Writing: Rhetoric as Argument</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students should refer to the course descriptions to select the <span class="basic-text-bold">one</span> course best suited to individual interests. While several communication courses can be selected to fulfill the university ACE 1 outcome, <span class="basic-text-bold">one</span> of the above is a specific requirement for the College of Business Administration and will fulfill both requirements with one course.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NBR 2: Mathematical, Computational, Statistical or Formal Reasoning Skills (ACE 3)</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-ital">Choose ONE of the following:</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 104 Calculus for Managerial &amp; Social Sciences (3 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I (5 cr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Any advanced calculus course above the 106 level</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Notes regarding the selection of course work for NBR 2 (ACE 3):</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">Credit cannot be given for both MATH 104 and MATH 106.</span> Students must determine the appropriate course early in their program.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>– A first semester student’s score on the Math Placement Exam will determine eligibility for MATH 104 or 106. The student should select between these classes based on the following sets of circumstances.</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">– Actuarial Science</span> majors <span class="basic-text-bold">MUST</span> take <span class="basic-text-bold">MATH 106 </span>(or a higher-level calculus). </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>– Actuarial science majors will also take MATH 107 (4 cr) and MATH 208 (4 cr) and CSCE 101 &amp; CSCE 101L (4 cr).</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">RAIKES</span> students <span class="basic-text-bold">MUST</span> take <span class="basic-text-bold">MATH 106 </span>(or a higher-level calculus)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1"><span class="no-style-override-2">MATH</span> 106 (or higher calculus) is <span class="basic-text-ital">strongly</span> encouraged for those students considering graduate school. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">While several courses can be selected to fulfill the university ACE 3 outcome, <span class="basic-text-bold">one</span> of the above is a specific requirement for the College of Business Administration and will fulfill both requirements with one course.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Math Placement Exam (MPE)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students admitted to the College of Business Administration are required to take a Math Placement Examination prior to enrolling in the college math requirement of MATH 104 or MATH 106 (or higher math). </p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">The results of this examination determine which math course students will enroll in their first semester on campus.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Students lacking sufficient high school preparation in math may need to enroll in equivalent high school preparatory courses, as will be determined by the MPE.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Preparatory courses should be taken as soon as possible to avoid future sequencing problems.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Additional information about the exam can be found at<span class="no-style-override-1"> www.math.unl.edu.</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Whether required to enroll in preparation course work first, as indicated on the MPE (MATH 100A, MATH 101 and/or MATH 103), or in one of the required courses, it is critical to begin MATH the first semester on campus.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NBR 3: The Study of Scientific Methods and Knowledge of the Natural and Physical World (ACE 4)</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-ital">Choose one course from ACE 4 Certified Courses</span>. (Course credit will vary between 3-4 credit hours.)</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">ABUS majors – NBR 3 (ACE 4) – AGRI 115, AGRO 131, ENTO 115, MSYM 109, NRES 108, PLPT 110 may be taken to fulfill the science requirement (NBR 3–ACE 4) as well as a requirement for the major (BCA-M). </li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NBR 4: Study of Humanities (ACE 5)</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-ital">Choose one course from ACE 5 Certified Courses.</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">IBUS majors – NBR 4 (ACE 5) – FREN 301, FREN 302; RUSS 301, RUSS 302, RUSS 482, RUSS 483 can be taken to fulfill NBR 4–ACE 5 as well as a requirement for a language minor.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override-3">NBR 5: Study of the Arts to Understand Their Context (ACE 7)</span></p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-ital">Choose one course from ACE 7 Certified Courses.</span></p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NBR 6: Global Awareness or Knowledge of Human Diversity Through Analysis of an Issue (ACE 9)</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-ital">Choose one course from ACE 9 Certified Courses.</span></p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students enrolling for their first semester with junior standing (or more), will see that the list of approved courses includes a few business courses. While this section is labeled “non-business requirements,” students may elect to enroll in one of the business courses to fulfill the ACE 9 requirement as long as prerequisites are completed (which are generally reserved for juniors or seniors). Work closely with your adviser to bring this to their attention and to question how this course may potentially satisfy other degree program requirements, including the major. The options include:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">ACTS majors – must complete an International Business Course as part of the degree requirements. Actuarial science majors may choose to take ECON 321, International Economics to fulfill the IBCR as well as the global awareness requirement (NBR 6–ACE 9).</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">ABUS majors – AECN 346, AECN 367, AECN 420, AECN 425, AGRI 282, ENSC 110, HORT 200, may be taken to fulfill the global awareness requirement (NBR 6–ACE 9) as well as a requirement for the major. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">BSAD majors – ECON 321, MNGT 365, MNGT 414 may be taken to fulfill the global awareness requirement (NBR 6–ACE 9) as well as a requirement for the major. (ECON 321 and MNGT 414 are also IBCR course options.) </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">ECON majors – ECON 321 may be taken fulfill the global awareness requirement (NBR 6–ACE 9) as well as a requirement for the major. (ECON 321 is also an IBCR option.)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">IBUS majors – ECON 321 or MNGT 414 may be taken to fulfill the global awareness requirement (NBR 6–ACE 9) as well as a requirement for the major. (Both are also IBCR options.)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">MNGT majors – MNGT 365, MNGT 414 may be taken to fulfill the global awareness requirement (NBR 6–ACE 9) and may be able to fulfill a requirement for the major depending on the option selected. (MNGT 414 is also an IBCR option.)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">An alternative to the above options is allowance of the course to count for NBR 6–ACE 9 and the associated minor—but only one or the other (major OR minor). </li>
			</ul>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>In any of the above instances where a double counting is an option, only 3 hours of credit are awarded; student will still need to meet the 120 hours for graduation.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NBR 7: Business Communication (ACE 1)</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">JGEN 220 Business Communication Strategies</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">This is a business writing course with sophomore standing with 3 hours of composition as a prerequisite. While it is also an ACE 1 course, as is ENGL, <span class="basic-text-bold">BOTH</span> ENGL and JGEN are specific requirements for the College of Business Administration.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">RAIKES students will complete RAIK 287H and RAIK 288H instead of JGEN 220.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NBR 8: Oral Communication Skills (ACE 2)</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Due to the importance of this course to the business curriculum, the college recommends taking this course on campus.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Sophomore standing is a prerequisite to enroll in this oral business speaking class; and while several other courses may be selected to fulfill the university ACE 2 requirement, COMM 286 is a specific requirement for the College of Business Administration.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">RAIKES students will complete RAIK 187H and RAIK 188H instead of COMM 286.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> In the selection of course work for any of the above NBR’s, prerequisites, when stated anywhere in this bulletin, means course work MUST BE COMPLETED to enroll in the class. Concurrent enrollment in any identified prerequisite(s) is NOT permitted unless so indicated in the course description.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Business Core – Four Sections (approximately 56-69 hours)</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Business Core Foundation (BCF)<span class="basic-text-bold"> –</span> 17 hours<span class="basic-text-ital"> </span><span class="list-ital">(1 hour not applicable toward 120 hours)</span></li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Business Core Intermediate (BCI)<span class="basic-text-bold"> –</span> 18 hours</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M) <span class="list-ital">(hours vary from 18-33 hrs)</span></li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Business Core Advanced–Capstone (BCA-C) <span class="list-ital">(3 hours + 0 hour assessment)</span></li>
			</ul>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The foundation and intermediate courses are designed to expose students to the various business disciplines. The advanced courses are those courses identified for each of the nine majors, and the capstone course is taken the final semester of the program. All course work for the Business Core (except where noted differently), must be taken for a grade.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Business Core Foundation (BCF) – Seven Courses (18 hours)</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>All students in the College of Business Administration will take the following courses (unless otherwise noted).</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">All course work (except 101 &amp; 150) must be taken for a grade.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">RAIKES students will complete a different series of course work for the Business Core Foundation:</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>– Foundation: RAIK 181H, RAIK 182H, RAIK 282H &amp; STAT 218</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>– Leadership Series: RAIK 185H, RAIK 186H, RAIK 285H, RAIK 286H</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>– Computer Science Foundation: RAIK 183H, RAIK 184H, RAIK 283H, RAIK 383H</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BCF 1–BSAD 111 Business Leadership Development (1 hr)</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">1-credit-hour cours<span class="no-style-override-1">e </span><span class="basic-text-ital">(offered Pass/No Pass only)</span><span class="no-style-override-1">. </span></li>
				<li class="bullet-1"><span class="no-style-override-1">Required of all new freshmen.</span></li>
				<li class="bullet-1"><span class="no-style-override-1">An active exploration, examination, and pursuit of fundamental concepts and principles of leadership development and how they relate to all fields within business administration. Also covered is a broad orientation to all domains of business administration, including activities, assignments, and exercises.</span></li>
				<li class="bullet-1"><span class="no-style-override-1">Take this course as a freshman </span><span class="basic-text-ital">(preferably first semester)</span><span class="no-style-override-1">.</span></li>
				<li class="bullet-1">BSAD 111 is waived for Chancellor’s Leadership, Raikes, and transfer students who have completed 27 hours.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BCF 2–BSAD 150 Business Computer Applications (1 hr)</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">1-credit-hour course <span class="basic-text-ital">(offered Pass/No Pass only).</span></li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Hour not applicable toward 120 hours for degree.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Take second semester of freshman year OR first semester of sophomore year<span class="basic-text-ital">.</span></li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Required basic-skills computer course, use Access, Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, and Excel; students will complete group projects and group tests.</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">Advanced computer applications students may wish to “test out” via the Credit by Exam option instead of taking the class. Refer to the BSAD 150 website for additional information.</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">RAIKES students do not need to complete this requirement.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BCF 3–ACCT 201 and ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting I &amp; II (3 hrs ea)</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Sequential; take ACCT 201 first </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Prerequisite: Sophomore standing, 2.5 cumulative GPA; or freshman standing with completion of MATH 104 with a grade of C or better, and a 2.5 cumulative GPA earned in 14 hours of UNL credit</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting II</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Sequential; take ACCT 202 following completion of ACCT 201</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Prerequisite: Sophomore standing; grade of C or better in ACCT 201; 2.5 cumulative GPA</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Grade of C or better in ACCT 202 is required to enroll in upper-level ACCT classes</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BCF 4–ECON 211 and ECON 212 Principles of Macro &amp; Microeconomics (ACE 8/6) (3 hrs ea)</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Not sequential </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Prerequisite: Completion of 12 hours of UNL course work</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">RAIKES students will satisfy their ACE 8/6 requirement with RAIK 182H/BSAD 182H &amp; RAIK 282H/BSAD 282H </li>
			</ul>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics</span></p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Same as above</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BCF 5–ECON 215 Statistics (ACE 3) (3 hrs)</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Prerequisites: Sophomore standing; MATH 104/MATH 104H or MATH 106/MATH 108H; BSAD 150; 2.5 GPA</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Must take ECON 215 (not STAT 218 nor EDPS 459 nor CRIM 300 nor SOCI 206)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Actuarial science majors MUST take STAT 380 instead of STAT 215; will also take STAT 462 and STAT 463</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BCF 6–BSAD 222 Career Development &amp; Planning (1 hr)</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">1-credit-hour course <span class="requirement-ital">(offered Pass/No Pass only)</span>. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Required of all CBA students. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">An experiential and interactive investigation of the career development and decision-making process to help students make educated academic and career decisions, identify goals and action plans, develop a professional network, and gain relevant experience. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Prerequisites: Majors in College of Business Administration; Sophomore standing; 2.5 GPA.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Take this course as a sophomore.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Business Core Intermediate (BCI) – Eight Courses (20 hours)</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Prerequisites for the BCI courses <span class="no-style-override-4">include</span> MATH (NBR2), ACCT 201, ACCT 202, ECON 211, ECON 212, ECON 215 and a 2.5 GPA</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Required of all business students regardless of major (except where noted under individual courses)</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">RAIKES students will take RAIK 281H and RAIK 381H in place of FINA 361, MNGT 331/SCMS 331, and SCMS 350. They will also take RAIK 341H in place of MRKT 341.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">In addition to differences noted above, RAIKES students will also complete:</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">Design Studio courses: RAIK 301H, RAIK 302H, RAIK 401H, and RAIK 402H</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">Computer science electives: 6 hrs from the following: CSCE 378, CSCE 476, RAIK 284H</li>
				<li class="bullet-3">These hours may be taken Pass/No Pass</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Enrollment sophomore and junior year</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">All course work must be taken for a grade</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Sequence with the following recommendations/restrictions:</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">Plan complete sequence of intentions to take BCI (and necessary prerequisites) to remain on schedule for graduation</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">The management courses are all different so; while they can be taken in the same semester, many students choose one or two for each semester.</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">Enroll in courses most applicable to major as soon as possible, particularly MRKT or FINA, to stay on sequence for major.</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">There are exceptions to these requirements for specific majors (ACCT, MRKT, ACTS). Please note those exceptions under the courses.</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">If transferring, a maximum of 3 hours may apply with further restrictions on applicability to not exceed the 75% rule.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">See the links for each course to know the specific prerequisites and course descriptions.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BCI 1–BLAW 371 Legal Environment or BLAW 372 Business Law (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>BLAW 371 Legal Enironment</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">or</span></p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>BLAW 372 Business Law (Accounting majors must take BLAW 372.)</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BCI 2 – SCMS 350/MNGT 350/Introduction to Management Information Systems or MRKT 350 Introduction to Marketing Information Systems</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">MRKT and ABUS majors may choose to take MRKT 350, which carries an additional prerequisite of MRKT 341.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">RAIKES students will take RAIK 281H in place of MNGT 350/SCMS 350.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BCI 3 – FINA 361 Finance (3 hrs)</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Actuarial science majors will take FINA 461 instead of FINA 361.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">RAIKES students will take RAIK 381H in place of FINA 361.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BCI 4 – MRKT 341 Marketing (3 hrs)</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Raikes students will take RAIK 341H in place of MRKT 341.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BCI 5 – MNGT 331/SCMS 331 Operations &amp; Supply Chain Management (3 hrs)</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">RAIKES students will take RAIK 281H in place of MNGT 331/SCMS 331.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BCI 6 – MNGT 360 Managing Behavior in Organizations (ACE 6) (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Professional Enhancement Program – Upper level</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PrEP–BSAD 333 Ethics for Business Leaders/The Job Search (1 hr)</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">1-credit-hour course <span class="requirement-ital">(offered Pass/No Pass only)</span>. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Required of all CBA students.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">A practical, issue-oriented examination of ethical decision-making and aspects of the internship/job search process in order to prepare students to acquire relevant experience and be ethical and professional business leaders.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Prerequisites: Majors in College of Business Administration; 2.5 GPA; BSAD 222.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Take this course as a junior <span class="requirement-ital">(preferably first semester)</span>.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PrEP–BSAD 444 Job Search Strategies &amp; Professionalism (1 hr)</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">1-credit-hour course <span class="requirement-ital">(offered Pass/No Pass only)</span>. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Required of all CBA students.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">An active exploration and pursuit of advanced job search skills and professionalism to help gain the skills and strategies necessary to pursue and secure post-graduation jobs or graduate school and successfully transition to life after college.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Prerequisites: Majors in College of Business Administration; 2.5 GPA; BSAD 333 or by permission.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Take this course as a senior<span class="requirement-ital"> (preferably first semester)</span> or junior <span class="requirement-ital">(preferably second semester)</span>.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Business Core Advanced-Major (BCA-M) – (18-36 hours)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students may pursue and reference specific major requirements by clicking on the major: accounting, actuarial science, agribusiness, business administration, economics, finance, international business, management, marketing, or suppy chain management.</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Course work for the major requires completion of specific, required courses of the department, along with other guidelines. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Refer to the major page for a listing of requirements. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Careful and advanced planning is necessary as some courses for the major may not necessarily be available every semester (particularly summer).</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">ALL course work for the major must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass).</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Students may be able to take their International Business Course Requirement (IBCR) as part of their major.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Although a 2.5 GPA may not be required to take these courses, a 2.5 is required to apply for graduation; thus, students are expected to maintain this level throughout their collegiate career.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Sequencing of classes is critical, particularly for agribusiness, actuarial science, and international business; plan the major courses well in advance of enrollment.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">By this point in time, the curriculum was designed for ACE (except ACE 10) to have been completed through other course work. If missing an ACE 4 or 9, there may be options through the major to fulfill both requirements.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">A maximum of 3 hours of course work may transfer if the 75% rule has not been exceeded. Further restrictions may apply. </li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Business Core Advanced-Capstone (BCA-C) – Two Courses (3 hours)</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BCA-C 1 – MNGT 475 Business Policies &amp; Strategies (ACE 10) (3 hrs)</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Reserved for graduating seniors, this course requires the Business Core Foundation (BCF) and Intermediate (BCI) course work to be completed for enrollment. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">A capstone course integrating business concepts covered throughout the program. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Course MUST be taken at UNL and taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass).</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">RAIKES students will take RAIK 382H to fulfill this requirement.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BCA-C 2 – BSAD 98 Senior Assessment (0 hrs)</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">A 0 credit-hour seminar required of ALL CBA graduating seniors. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Taught via Blackboard – all components must be completed to a satisfactory level to graduate.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Major Field Test required as part of assessment, which must be passed to graduate.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives – Hours Vary to meet 120 hour minimum to graduate</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives round out the rest of the 120 hour curriculum where students have the option to choose courses toward a second major, a dual degree, a minor (or two); or, students can simply select courses of personal interest.</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Some hours may need to be additional business course work (to meet the requirement that 60 hours of course work be in business). This requirement will vary by major.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">There may be a need to enroll in an international business course requirement (IBCR) if not taken as part of the major or for the business elective(s) requirement.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">A minimum of 12 hours of 300/400 upper-level course work beyond the business core is required for most majors to ensure depth is achieved through enrollment in elective hours. See 300/400-level Elective Requirement below for additional information.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">In addition to the Foundation, leadership, and computer science foundation courses listed earlier, RAIKES students will also complete the following courses as part of the degree requirements:</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">Raikes Design Studio Courses <span class="basic-text-ital">(must be taken for a grade)</span>:</li>
				<li class="bullet-3">RAIK 301H, RAIK 302H, RAIK 401H, RAIK 402H (ACE 10)</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">Raikes Computer Science Electives <span class="basic-text-ital">(can be taken Pass/No Pass)</span></li>
				<li class="bullet-3">Choose 6 hours from: CSCE 378, CSCE 476 or RAIK 284H</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">If not completed through the other area requirements, any remaining ACE requirements will need to be completed as required electives.</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">In a 21-hour major, students will average 32 hours of elective credit; 2nd major options and/or minors may be appropriate to consider for elective hours.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Other Requirements</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>International Business Course Requirement (IBCR)</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">The international business course requirement (IBCR) is to broaden the student’s international perspective. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Each student, excluding accounting majors, must include one course which emphasizes an international perspective.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Actuarial Science majors are encouraged to take FINA 450 if they have not met this requirement with completion of NBR 6 – ACE 9 with ECON 321 or MNGT 414.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">The IBCR must be taken for a grade.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>The course must be chosen from the following approved list of International Business Course Requirement (IBCR) courses. Many of these courses have prerequisites. Some are restricted for education abroad and others may only be offered once a year. Thus, you are advised to plan ahead in scheduling this requirement into your program.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>IBCR Courses</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>BSAD 491 International Studies in Business and Economics (1-15 hrs)</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-2">Available only to students studying abroad for which there is no UNL equivalent course.</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">Available also for the Senshu, Japan, CIMBA Italy, and for the China Education Abroad Programs.</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">Senshu program students may apply 3 hours towards electives in the FINA, MNGT, or MRKT major; 6 hours applicable for BSAD or IBUS major/minor.</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">BSAD 491 credit from any other study abroad program should be based on course topics directly associated with a specific major in MNGT, MRKT or FINA, and may need department consent. Students should visit with an academic adviser for assistance.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 321 Introduction to International Economics <span class="list-ital">(If not completed at this point, MNGT 414 may double count for ACE 9.)</span></p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 421 International Trade <span class="list-ital">(credit cannot be earned in both ECON 421 and AECN 420)</span></p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 422 International Finance</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 423 Economics of the Less Developed Countries</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 466 &amp; ECON 467 Pro-Seminar in International Relations I &amp; II <span class="list-ital">(Credit option for students participating in the Nebraska at Oxford Program.)</span></p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>FINA 450 International Financial Management</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 414 Leadership in a Global Context <span class="list-ital">(If not completed at this point, MNGT 414 may double count for ACE 9.)</span> </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 459/SCMS 459 Global Information Systems</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 453 International Marketing (prerequisite requires completion of 6 hours of MRKT course work)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>SCMS 439 Global Sourcing &amp; Distribution</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Although the following courses may also be used to fulfill requirements in the international business major/minor/IBCR, students should be aware that they are not necessarily offered on a consistent basis.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 322 Introduction to Development Economics <span class="list-ital">(credit cannot be earned in both ECON 322 and AECN 367) </span></p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 323 The Economic Development of Latin America </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 388 Comparative Economics Systems </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 440 Regional Development</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 487 Economies in Transition</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>If planned carefully, the IBCR course can count in two places. It is not an extra 3 hours of credit, but rather, is 3 hours embedded within other requirements. If selected carefully, it can also count for 3 hours of credit in the major (i.e. MRKT 453 counts for MRKT elective in MRKT major and would count for the IBCR; FINA 450 counts for FINA elective in FINA major and would fulfill the IBCR as well; etc.). On the other hand, if course work for the major is already determined by personal choices, the IBCR can count in electives, and more specifically, for one of the ‘business’ electives needed for most majors.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>300/400 Upper-level Requirement</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>As part of the degree requirements, all students must complete 12 hours of 300/400 level course work.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This can be business or non-business course work.</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Business course work from the Business Core Intermediate (BCI), Business Core Advanced-Major (FIRST Major) or Business Core Advanced-Capstone may NOT be used to fulfill this requirement with exceptions noted below:</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">If more than 21 hours of course work for the major are taken at the 300/400-level and of those hours, course work is not being double counted toward the NBR and major, the additional 300/400-level hours can be used to fulfill the 300/400-level requirement. You will need to consult your Degree Audit to determine your requirements.</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">BSAD majors will complete a 24 hour major and only need to complete 9 upper level hours.</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">FINA majors, will take between 24 and 30 hours for their major; consult the major section in this document or your Degree Audit to determine how many hours will double count for this requirement. This will depend on which option you select for the major.</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">Actuarial science, agribusiness majors, international business majors and RAIKES students do not need to meet this requirement due to the additional hours at the 300/400 level required for the major/program.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Business Core Advanced-Major course work used for a SECOND major (if picked), or course work selected for a minor MAY count.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Non-business course work (NBR) taken at the 300/400 level may be double counted to fulfill this requirement if it is not being used to double count for the 1st major.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">No course may be taken on a Pass/No Pass basis unless it is 398/399 credit. Only 3 hours of 398/399 is allowed for this requirement.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Business Course/Business Elective Hours</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Sixty (60) hours of business courses are required for the BSBA degree.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The required hours WILL VARY BY MAJOR, dependent on how requirements have been accepted and/or completed throughout the previous components of the program. While <span class="basic-text-bold">GENERAL MINIMUM</span> guidelines by major are noted below, My Degree Audit will specify <span class="basic-text-ital">minimum business</span> credit hour expectations for each student. You will generally see this addressed under the ELECTIVE section (BUSINESS ELECTIVES) on My Degree Audit.</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">ACCT, ECON majors – 3 hours</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">BSAD – no additional business course work as your major consists of 28 hours of business course work</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">ACTS – no additional business course work as your major consists of 28 hours of business course work.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">FINA – no additional business course work as your major consists of 24-28 hours of business course work. UNLESS you select AECN 495A under the Banking and Financial Institutions options, and then you will need 3 hours of business electives.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">ABUS and RAIK – no additional business course work required due to intent of major as being ‘business-related’ course work.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Additional hours may be required if there is a variation in hours for NBR, BCF, BCI or BCA, or if there is a violation of the 75% rule, the 15 hour rule, etc.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Course work must be taken for a grade except for 398/399 options where grades are generally not permitted</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Foreign Languages/Language Requirement</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Other than meeting the minimum requirement for admission to the University, the College does not require any additional work in foreign languages except for the international business major. Students, however, are always encouraged to take language courses.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Minimum Hours Required for Graduation</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A minimum of 120 semester hours of credit is required for graduation; more may be necessary if specific degree requirements have not yet been completed. Most students will graduate with 121 hours as BSAD 150 is not applicable toward degree requirements.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>C- and D Grades </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>While students may earn grades of C- or D, there are restrictions and recommendations for such grades and further enrollment options:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Grade of C or higher in ACCT 201 required to enroll in ACCT 202.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Grade of C or higher in ACCT 202 required to enroll in any 300/400-level ACCT course.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Grade of C or higher required in other departmental higher-level sequencing courses (i.e. MATH 101 to take MATH 104, etc.). See course descriptions to determine enrollment restrictions.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Minimum 2.5 cumulative GPA required to enroll in many business courses.</li>
				<li class="bullet-2">ACCT 201, ACCT 202, ECON 215, FINA 361, BLAW 371, BLAW 372, MNGT 331, MNGT 350/SCMS 350, MNGT 360, MNGT 475, MRKT 341, MRKT 350</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Grades of C- or lower can be removed by retaking the course at UNL or within the University system (UNK, UNO).</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Grades of C or better are required to transfer courses from other institutions.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">University of Nebraska System transfers that are not included in the course work identified above require a D- or better grade. Students at system schools need to remember that their grade point transfers with them.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Academic bankruptcy options may be considered for students who have one or two semesters of poor performance.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Pass/No Pass option is designed for students who want to study areas or topics in which they may have minimum preparation. If used for this purpose, the option can enrich the student’s academic experience without lowering the student’s grade point average. Several restrictions apply when considering the Pass/No Pass option:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">BSAD 111 and BSAD 150 are offered only as Pass/No Pass. Both are required and BSAD 150 does not count toward the 120 hours required for the degree</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Students may apply no more than 6 hours of elective credit using the Pass/No Pass option (excludes BSAD 111, BSAD 150, BSAD 222, BSAD 333, BSAD 444). </li>
				<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">No</span> student in <span class="basic-text-bold">any</span> College enrolled at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln may take business courses in the College of Business Administration using the Pass/No Pass option.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">College of Business Administration students may <span class="basic-text-bold">NOT</span> take course work to satisfy ACE requirements, the International Business Course Requirement (IBCR), nor <span class="basic-text-bold">any</span> required business course work, including the major and minor, using the Pass/No Pass option. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Students majoring in actuarial science through the College of Business Administration may <span class="basic-text-bold">NOT</span> take any math, actuarial science, or required courses using the Pass/No Pass option. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Students taking courses to fulfill the requirements of a minor in an area of study outside the College of Business Administration are subject to CBA rules restricting use of the Pass/No Pass option if courses in their minor are used to meet ACE or any college-specific requirements. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Students seeking any minor outside the College should verify rules applying to minimum grade expectations and Pass/No Pass options with the adviser for their minor as additional restrictions may apply and they often vary. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Students from UNO/UNK/UNMC and from other institutions are subject to the same restrictions listed here of UNL students.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Exceptions to the above rules are limited to the following and no other exceptions will be made.</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">An independent study course (398, 399) may be taken in the College of Business Administration using the Pass/No Pass option with the permission of the instructor and the department chair but College of Business Administration students who qualify for this exception may use the independent study course (398, 399) <span class="basic-text-bold">only</span> as elective credit. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Advanced Placement grades of P and Credit By Exam grades of P will be accepted to fulfill degree requirements (with the exception of BSAD 150). These hours will not count against the 6-hour-maximum hours permitted. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Students who travel abroad and return with “credit” rather than grades from the institution where they studied may use P grades to fulfill degree requirements. These hours will not count against the 9-hour-maximum number of hours permitted.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>GPA Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A 2.5 cumulative grade point average is required to apply for graduation, as well as a requirement for enrollment in ACCT 201 and ACCT 202, ECON 215, BLAW 371 and BLAW 372, FINA 361, MNGT 331, MNGT 360, MNGT 475, MNGT 350/SCMS 350 or MRKT 350, and MRKT 341. In some instances, a specific grade is required in certain courses to continue with upper-level course work.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Transfer Credit Rules</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override-1">See Maximum/Minimum hour restrictions under Course Exclusions and Restrictions</span></p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Course Level Requirements (Hour Requirement 300+)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In addition to the Business Core Intermediate and Business Core Advanced and Business Course Advanced Capstone requirements, business students must complete an additional 12 hours of 300/400-level course work in their program (not required for ACTS majors and RAIKES students). Students generally fulfill this requirement through their electives, but there may be a few upper-class students who can fulfill the requirement with the ACE course requirements. Twelve hours is based on a 21 hour major. The number is adjusted when there are larger majors.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Residency</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">At least 30 of the last 36 hours of credit must be registered for and completed in residence at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Students electing to study abroad in their final semester are exempted for the hours earned abroad, but no additional hours may be transferred in the last 36 hours. This exemption requires filing a written appeal in the Undergraduate Programs office.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DEGREES &amp; MAJORS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Majors</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Accounting</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Actuarial Science <span class="list-ital">(also offered through the College of Arts &amp; Sciences)</span></p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Agribusiness <span class="list-ital">(also offered through the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources)</span></p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Business Administration</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Economics <span class="list-ital">(also offered through the College of Arts &amp; Sciences)</span></p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Finance</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>International Business</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Management</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Marketing</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Supply Chain Management</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Dual Degrees</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Given the number of elective hours available to most CBA students, consideration should be given to the opportunity to pursue a dual degree, which allows simultaneous enrollment in CBA and another college on campus. Students will need to consult with both colleges to ensure all requirements are satisfied in a timely, efficient manner and that double counting of course (where appropriate) is identified in advance of enrollment.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>GRADUATE STUDENT INFORMATION</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Graduate program options include:</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MBA Programs</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Master of Business Administration (MBA)</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Joint Programs</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Master of Business Administration/Master of Architecture</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Master of Business Administration/Juris Doctorate</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Master of Professional Accountancy/Juris Doctorate</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Other Masters Programs</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Master of Professional Accountancy (MPA)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Master of Science in Actuarial Science</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Master of Arts in Business with a specialization in Marketing</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Master of Arts in Economics</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Ph.D. Programs</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Economics</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Business with specializations in:</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Accountancy</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Finance</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Management</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Marketing</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Additional information on all graduate degree programs, including those listed above, can be found in the Graduate Studies Bulletin. For more information, please go to www.unl.edu/gradstudies.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MINORS &amp; AREAS OF SPECIALIZATIONS OFFERED</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Minors Outside the College</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The faculty of the College encourages students to minor in a discipline outside the College to develop logical and critical thinking, curiosity, understanding of the external environment and sensitivity to ethical issues. By developing these abilities, students can enrich their lives and provide a broader basis for informed and responsible decision making.</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Minors are not required; only recommended.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Course work for the minor may be counted for the minor and ACE if so designated as ACE. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">“PLAN A” requires completion of one minor; “Plan B” requires two minors be completed. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">The actuarial science minor is NOT an option for a FINA major.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Double counting of credit towards minors is determined by the department and college offering the minor.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">RAIKES students should designate a computer science minor as most course work is taken as part of the program requirements.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>These are the only minor options available outside the College of Business Administration.</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Actuarial Science</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>African Studies</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>African-American Studies</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Agricultural Economics</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Anthropology</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Applied Science <span class="list-ital">(formerly Diversified Agricultural Studies)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Art or Art History</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Asian Studies</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Astronomy <span class="list-ital">(see Physics)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Biological Chemistry</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Biological Sciences</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Chemistry</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Child, Youth and Family Studies</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Classics</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Communication Studies</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Community and Regional Planning</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Computer Science</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Conflict and Conflict Resolution</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Criminal Justice</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Czech <span class="list-ital">(see Modern Languages)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Dance</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Education</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>English</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Environmental Studies</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Ethnic Studies</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Film Studies</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>French <span class="list-ital">(see Modern Languages)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Geography</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Geology</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>German <span class="list-ital">(see Modern Languages)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Gerontology</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Global Studies</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Great Plains Studies</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Greek <span class="list-ital">(see Classics &amp; Religious Studies)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>History</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Human Rights and Human Diversity</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Individualized Program of Studies</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Japanese</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Jewish Studies</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Latin <span class="list-ital">(see Classics &amp; Religious Studies)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Latina/Latino Studies <span class="list-ital">(see U.S. Latina/Latino Studies)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Mathematics</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Medieval and Renaissance Studies</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Meteorology-Climatology <span class="list-ital">(see Geosciences)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Military Science</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Music</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Native American Studies</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Philosophy</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Physics</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Political Science</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Psychology</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Public Policy Analysis and Evaluation</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Religious Studies <span class="list-ital">(see Classics &amp; Religious Studies)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Russian <span class="list-ital">(see Modern Languages)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Sociology</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Spanish <span class="list-ital">(see Modern Languages)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Statistics</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Textiles, Merchandising and Fashion Design</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Theatre Arts</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>U.S. Latina/Latino Studies</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>University Studies</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Women’s and Gender Studies</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Minors Within the College</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The College of Business Administration offers the following business minors to business students only.</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Business Minors are not required.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Course work for the minor may be counted for the minor and ACE if so designated as ACE.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">The actuarial science minor is NOT an option for a FINA major. </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Business course work used for any of these minors cannot be double counted toward the major or other minor requirements, BCF, BCI, BCA-M or BCA-C. (<span class="basic-text-ital">See Finance Department for exceptions.)</span></li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Business students choosing to minor in economics must follow the CBA economics minor requirement.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Business Minors</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Accounting </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Actuarial Science</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Economics </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Finance </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>International Business</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Management </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Marketing</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Other Emphases/Tracks</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Finance Majors </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>There are several options available to finance majors:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">general finance</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">banking &amp; financial institutions </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">risk management &amp; insurance</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">CFA® – investments option</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Management Majors</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Management majors will select an option from the list below. See the Management major section for details.</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">human resources management</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">entrepreneurship and innovation</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">leadership in organizations </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">general management </li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Marketing Majors</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Marketing majors can pursue tracks (as described under the marketing major) in:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">merchandising (minor)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">merchandising/design (minor)</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">advertising</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Unlike the major and minor, recognition of completion of these emphases/tracks do not appear on the student’s transcript.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>General Business Minor—Plan A Only</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>The minor consists of the following 18 hours:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ACCT 200 Accounting for Business Decisions (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 200 Economic Essentials &amp; Issues (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>BLAW 300 Business Government &amp; Society (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>FINA 300 Financial Decision Making (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 300 Management Essentials for Contemporary Organizations (3 hrs) </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 300 Contemporary Marketing (3 hrs)</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Please note the following information.</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">This minor is available to all other colleges at UNL.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Only nonbusiness students can complete this minor.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Courses in the minor can’t be used towards a degree in business</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Prerequisites are enforced.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">No more than one course may be transferred into the minor.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Students with previous credit in business should see their college adviser for further information.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Military Leadership Minor—Plan A Only</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This is an 18 hour minor.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Military Leadership Minor is designed for CBA students who are involved in one of the three ROTC programs. The requirements for each are listed below.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Military Leadership Minor (Army ROTC)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. MLSC 401 Leadership &amp; Management (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. MLSC 402L Leadership Lab VII (0 cr) Lab.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. MLSC 402 Officership (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. MLSC 402L Leadership Lab VIII (0 cr) Lab. </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>5a. HIST 303 United States Military History, 1607-1917 (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">OR</span></p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>5b. HIST 304 United States Military History Since 1917 (3 cr) Lec 3. </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>6. MNGT 311 Leadership, Communications &amp; Teams (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Students must take two of the four courses below:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>7. MNGT 411 Leading People &amp; Projects (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>8. MNGT 412 Negotiating &amp; Conflict Management (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>9. MNGT 413 Building Ethical &amp; Sustainable Organizations (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>10. MNGT 414 Leadership in a Global Context (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> If MNGT 311 is a required course for your major, you may take three of the four above courses to complete the minor as long as none of the courses above are used in their major. To complete their minor, if any of the above courses are used in their major, they may select from the courses below as substitutes: </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 361, MNGT 461, SCMS 335, SCMS 437, SCMS 459, SCMS 444, ECON 416, ECON 417, ECON 433, MRKT 453, or MRKT 458.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A total of 18 credit hours must be completed for the minor. No double counting is allowed between majors and minors.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Military Leadership Minor (Navy ROTC)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. NAVS 100 Naval Orientation Lab (0 cr)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. NAVS 401 Naval Leadership &amp; Management (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. NAVS 412 Leadership and Ethics (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>4a. HIST 303 United States Military History, 1607-1917 (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">OR</span></p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>4b. HIST 304 United States Military History Since 1917 (3 cr) Lec 3. </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>5. MNGT 311- Leadership, Communications &amp; Teams (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Students must take two of the four courses below:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>6. MNGT 411 Leading People &amp; Projects (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>7. MNGT 412 Negotiating &amp; Conflict Management (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>8. MNGT 413 Building Ethical &amp; Sustainable Organizations (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>9. MNGT 414 Leadership in a Global Context (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE: </span>If MNGT 311 is a required course for your major, you may take three of the four above courses to complete the minor as long as none of the courses above are used in their major. To complete their minor, if any of the above courses are used in their major, they may select from the courses below as substitutes: </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 361, MNGT 461, SCMS 335, SCMS 437, SCMS 459, SCMS 444, ECON 416, ECON 417, ECON 433, MRKT 453, or MRKT 458.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A total of 18 credit hours must be completed for the minor. No double counting is allowed between majors and minors.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Military Leadership Minor (Aerospace ROTC)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. AERO 441 National Security Affairs &amp; Preparation for Active Duty I (3 cr) Lec. </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. AERO 441L Leadership Lab (0 cr) Lab.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. AERO 442 National Security Affairs &amp; Preparation for Active Duty II (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. AERO 442L Leadership Lab (0 cr) Lab. </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>5a. HIST 303 United States Military History, 1607-1917 (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">OR</span></p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>5b. HIST 304 United States Military History Since 1917 (3 cr) Lec 3. </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>6. MNGT 311 Leadership, Communications &amp; Teams (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Students must take two of the four courses below:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>7. MNGT 411 Leading People &amp; Projects (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>8. MNGT 412 Negotiating &amp; Conflict Management (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>9. MNGT 413 Building Ethical &amp; Sustainable Organizations (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>10. MNGT 414 Leadership in a Global Context (3 cr) Lec 3.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> If MNGT 311 is a required course for your major, you may take three of the four above courses to complete the minor as long as none of the courses above are used in their major. To complete their minor, if any of the above courses are used in their major, they may select from the courses below as substitutes: </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 361, MNGT 461, SCMS 335, SCMS 437, SCMS 459, SCMS 444, ECON 416, ECON 417, ECON 433, MRKT 453, or MRKT 458.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A total of 18 credit hours must be completed for the minor. No double counting is allowed between majors and minors</p>
			<p class="content-box-m-p" xml:lang='en-us'>OTHER </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Course Sequence Guide</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The following guide allows for completion of degree requirements within four years. Use the guide to plan for each semester and always refer to My Degree Audit (accessible on MyRED) to determine requirements specific to the major.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>First Year–Freshman</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>BSAD 150 (or sophomore first semester)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGL 101 or ENGL 150 or ENGL 151</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 104 (or MATH 106)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 4, 5, 7, 9</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">Total: 31 hours</span></p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>First or Second Year–Freshman/Sophomore</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ACCT 201 </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 211 and ECON 212</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Second Year–Sophomore</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>BSAD 222 (1 hr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ACCT 201 <span class="list-ital">(if not taken as freshman)</span> and ACCT 202</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 211 and ECON 212 <span class="list-ital">(if not taken as freshman)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 215</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>JGEN 220 and COMM 286</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE and/or Electives</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">Total: 30 hours</span></p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Second or Third Year–Sophomore/Junior</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>BLAW 371 <span class="list-ital">(non-accounting majors)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 350<span class="no-style-override-6">/SCMS 350</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>FINA 361</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 341</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Departmental Major Requirements <span class="list-ital">(if prerequisites are completed)</span></p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Third Year–Junior</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>BSAD 333 (1 hr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>BLAW 371 <span class="list-ital">(if not taken as sophomore)</span> or BLAW 372 <span class="list-ital">(accounting majors only)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 350<span class="no-style-override-6">/SCMS 350</span>, FINA 361, MRKT 341 <span class="list-ital">(if not taken as sophomore)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 331 and MNGT 360</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Departmental Major Requirements</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE and/or Electives <span class="list-ital">(300/400 level if not done)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">Total: 30 hours</span></p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Fourth Year–Senior</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>BSAD 444 (1 hr)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Major Requirements</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Business Electives</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>IBCR <span class="list-ital">(if not taken in major)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE and/or Electives <span class="list-ital">(300/400 level if not done)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 475 Business Policies &amp; Strategies <span class="list-ital">(final semester)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>BSAD 98 Senior Assessment <span class="list-ital">(final semester)</span></p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">Total: 30 hours</span></p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
