<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Div of General Studies Main Page</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="div-of-general-studies-main-page">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Division of General Studies</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">http://www.unl.edu/dgs/advising</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Division of General Studies provides an academic home for UNL students who come to campus uncertain about the field of study they wish to pursue. The Division of General Studies does not award degrees. While students are choosing their major, General Studies advisers assist students with course selection and degree planning. Advisers also help students identify UNL majors that match their interests. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who choose to begin their academic careers in General Studies have a variety of career interests and need time to make a decision regarding which college and major are most appropriate for them. Others have narrowed their choices to two or three options but want to explore these choices in greater depth before they make a firm commitment. Still other students have no idea what they want to major in or what career opportunities are available to them. A fourth category is the student who has chosen a field of study (e.g., engineering or architecture) but needs preparatory work in order to meet the admission requirements of that program. All of these students will find the assistance they need by enrolling as General Studies students. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">One of the strengths of General Studies is its unique position with regard to academic advising. Professional advisers in the Division are qualified to advise students interested in any of the eight UNL undergraduate colleges as well as the UNO- and UNMC-based programs. By working closely with all of the colleges, the adviser can help students design a general academic plan for one or more semesters that will allow them to progress toward a degree, while exploring the variety of opportunities offered by the University.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Since General Studies does not offer a degree program, most students are encouraged to transfer to one of the eight undergraduate colleges by the end of their freshman year. Some will transfer before that time while others may remain in General Studies longer if they have not met all of the admission requirements for their chosen college, such as a specific grade point average (GPA). Once they have chosen a college, it is in the best interest of students to transfer out of General Studies into that college without delay as it is important for them to make connections with faculty and staff in their academic program.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Program Admission </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who have met the overall University admission requirements established by the Board of Regents are eligible for admission to General Studies. The University admission requirements are outlined in detail on the Admissions site at http://admissions.unl.edu/.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Some UNL colleges have admission requirements in addition to the overall University admission requirements, and General Studies students will be advised accordingly as they choose the majors they would like to pursue in their chosen colleges.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students desiring to transfer from other institutions and enroll in General Studies at UNL must have a cumulative grade point average of C (2.0 GPA on a 4.0 scale) or above. Students who do not meet this requirement may appeal their admission status to the Director of Admissions. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Because admission requirements establish the level of knowledge and skills which are needed for a student to succeed at UNL, students who are admitted with core course deficiencies in foreign language and geometry are expected to quickly remove them. Deficiencies must be removed before a student is eligible for graduation. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">General Studies students who lack one or more of the high school units required for admission to any of the eight undergraduate colleges will be advised of the procedure for removing the deficiency by their General Studies adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADVISING</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Academic Advising</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The General Studies office has daily walk-in hours as well as appointment options. Students should consult with their adviser frequently to discuss their academic program, career interests, course selections, specific college admission and graduation requirements, University procedures and policies and other matters of concern to them. Each student is assigned an academic adviser when they are admitted to the Division of General Studies. Students may view their assignment on their Student Center on their MyRED account.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Since the General Studies advisers work closely with advisers in the eight undergraduate colleges on campus, a student will be able to take courses that meet several college requirements while deciding on a major. This opportunity allows the student to explore possible areas of interest before declaring a major.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Once a student has selected a major or college, the adviser will review the admission requirements with the student and outline the steps necessary to matriculate in the newly-selected major and college.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Responsibility</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">General Studies students should meet with their academic adviser at least two times each semester. We encourage students to seek advisement whenever they have questions related to their academic major and or interests. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ACE REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All University of Nebraska students are required to complete general education courses. Students new to UNL must complete the Achievement-Centered Education requirements (ACE). See the website, http://ace.unl.edu, for details. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">During their first year at UNL, students should also enroll in exploratory courses to help them identify majors of interest. Please refer to the Division of General Studies website, http://www.unl.edu/dgs), for an up-to-date list of exploratory courses (listed by major). </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students should keep in mind that, in general, 100-level courses are for freshmen, 200-level courses for sophomores, 300-level courses for juniors, and 400-level courses for seniors.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">General Studies First Year Student Guide</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style"> Semester 1</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE 1</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE 3 OR 4</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE 6</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE 9 OR 7</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Exploratory Course (Interest Area)</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Semester 1 – Keep on Track Activities</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Find your interest – Do the Career Cruising Activity: http://www.careercruising.com. Contact Career Services (402-472-3145) to obtain the login information.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Find UNL majors that match interests – Do the Power of Possibilities Activity: http://possibilities.unl.edu/</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Research UNL majors and courses – Use the Bulletin: http://bulletin.unl.edu/undergraduate/</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Meet often with your academic adviser for academic planning</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Semester 2</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE 2</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE 3 or 4</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE 5 or 8</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE 7 or 9</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Exploratory Course (Interest Area)</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Semester 2 – Keep on Track Activities</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Test drive a career – Do a shadow experience in the Guided Professional Shadowing Program</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Research majors – Talk to faculty, advisers and students</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Meet with a career counselor – NU Union Room 230 (472-3145)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Declare a major – Start declaration process in General Studies</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Tips</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ACE courses can also be exploratory courses.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Researching majors and exploring options in the first year is important for deciding students.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Academic Load</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">General Studies students may enroll in a maximum of 18 credits in the fall and spring semesters. Students should refer to the Summer Schedule of Classes to determine the number of credits they may enroll in for each of the summer sessions. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">General Studies students should always seek assistance from their adviser in determining whether they should take a course on the Pass/No Pass option. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Recognition</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Dean’s List/Degrees with Distinction/Scholarships</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who complete at least 12 graded semester hours with a 3.60 GPA are eligible for the General Studies Honor Roll. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Credit Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">General Studies does not offer a degree. Thus General Studies advisers do not make transfer evaluation decisions. Students transferring into General Studies from outside the University of Nebraska system will need to present a transcript for admission. Courses on the transcript may be viewed as meeting the overall University requirements for admission, but the determination of which of these courses will meet graduation requirements in a specific college cannot be made until the student declares a specific major within one of the eight undergraduate degree-granting colleges. The General Studies adviser can provide a preliminary assessment of which specific courses may be accepted by each of the colleges. This assessment is done in cooperation with the colleges and is subject to their approval upon admission to their program.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
