<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Education &amp; Human Sciences Main Page.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="education-human-sciences-main-page">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="college-name" xml:lang='en-us'>College of Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION </p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Marjorie Kostelnik, Ph.D., Dean and Associate Director Agricultural Research Division; Professor of Child, Youth and Family Studies</span></p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'>Beth Doll, Ph.D., Associate Dean and Professor of Educational Psychology</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'>Debra Mullen, Ph.D., Associate Dean and Lecturer in Educational Administration</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>For additional information or questions, contact:</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Dean’s Office, 105 Home Economics Building, 402-472-2916</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>or</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Dean’s Office, 231 Mable Lee Hall, 402-472-5400</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Website: http://cehs.unl.edu</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS) is dedicated to enhancing the lives of individuals, families, schools, and communities and to strengthening the relationships among them. CEHS includes seven departments which collectively offer students a wide range of academic programs that can lead to careers and professions in such areas as:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Education: Careers include teaching in elementary and secondary schools; special education; and speech-language pathology.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Health, Medical or Wellness: Careers include clinical and community nutrition; medical and health programs; fitness and wellness programs; and athletic training.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Human Sciences: Careers include early childhood education; human services; job, family and personal counseling; and social work.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Hotel, Restaurant and Tourism Management and Culinary Science: Careers include working in tourism; event planning; hotel operations; and food product development.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Journalism/Communication: Careers include broadcasting, news editorial and advertising.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Textiles, Merchandising and Fashion Design: Careers include textile design; apparel design; fashion illustration; visual merchandising; and product development.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The CEHS faculty, academic advisers, and the entire college staff welcome you to explore the many academic and career opportunities our college has to offer UNL students. Please let us know if there is any way we can be of assistance to you. This Web page is designed to conveniently help you find information and answers to any questions you may have. If you are unable to locate what you are looking for, please contact the Student Services Center at 402-472-8625. </p>
			<p class="content-box-m-p" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSION</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>College Admission</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students accepted by the University must have an ACT of 20 or SAT of 950, or rank in the upper half of their high school graduating class, and have the following high school preparation to be eligible for guaranteed admission to the College of Education and Human Sciences:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Four years of English that include intensive reading and writing experience; </li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Two years of one foreign language;</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Four years of mathematics, that include Algebra I, II, geometry and one year that builds on a knowledge of algebra;</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Three years of natural sciences that include at least two years selected from biology, physics, chemistry, and earth science and one year of laboratory instruction;</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Three years of social studies, to include at least one year of American and/or world history and one year of history, American government, and/or geography.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Transfer and Readmitted Students</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Transfer students from universities or colleges outside of UNL and readmitted students seeking admission to the College of Education and Human Sciences must have an accumulated average of 2.0 on a 4.0 scale or above and no high school deficiencies. Students who do not meet these requirements must enroll as deciding students in the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center or in another college. Once they have completed 12 graded hours at UNL with a minimum 2.0 grade point average, and have removed any high school deficiencies, UNL students may apply for admission to the College.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Transfer and readmitted students must meet the graduation requirements for the College of Education and Human Sciences as stated in the current catalog in effect at the time they enter or reenter the College.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students who left the College on probation, or who were dismissed, may seek readmission to the College after two semesters by applying to the UNL Admissions Office. Readmission is not assured. However, the admissions committee is receptive to giving students a second opportunity to be successful. The committee is interested in knowing what the student has done in the intervening period that would suggest the student will be successful when readmitted. Successfully completing correspondence courses and/or community college courses is an effective way to demonstrate one’s commitment to academic success.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Transferring from Other Colleges within UNL</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students transferring to the College of Education and Human Sciences from another University of Nebraska–Lincoln college or from the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0, be in good academic standing, and meet the freshman entrance requirements that exist at the time of their admission to the College of Education and Human Sciences. <span class="basic-text-bold">Students must fulfill degree requirements that exist at the time of their admission to the college, not at the time they enter UNL.</span></p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>To remain current, College of Education and Human Sciences students must enroll in, and complete, at least one UNL course that will apply toward degree requirements during a 12 month period. Students who readmit following an absence of one year or more must meet all requirements in the Undergraduate Bulletin in effect at the time of readmission and enrollment. Students who transfer to another UNL college and later return to the College of Education and Human Sciences will be considered readmitted students. Students who transfer out of a teacher education program, but who continue their certification program while seeking a degree in another UNL college, are exempt from this policy.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>International Students</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The College of Education and Human Sciences welcomes undergraduate international students. As a part of admission to the College, international students must present a TOEFL score of 550 or higher and TSE score of 230 or higher.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students seeking teacher education and state certification must meet the same requirements as any other undergraduate students, including the Pre-Professional Skills Test or other basic skills test approved by the Nebraska Department of Education. Students who have received a degree outside of the United States and are interested in teacher certification are required to have a transcript review completed by an approved agency not directly associated with the University of Nebraska. For more information, please contact the Student Services Center.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Removal of Deficiencies</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students admitted to the University with core deficiencies are expected to remove those deficiencies in a timely manner. Students with deficiencies are not eligible for graduation. The courses that students use to clear core deficiencies may also be used to meet ACE requirements or other graduation requirements. The Dean of the College of Education and Human Sciences will make the final decision concerning any problems or questions that may arise in satisfying requirements to remove deficiencies.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADVISING</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>College of Education and Human Sciences students are encouraged to meet with their assigned academic adviser prior to registration for any term (fall, spring, and summer session). Every CEHS student is assigned to an adviser. If you do not know the name of your academic adviser, please call the advising center at 402-472-8625 or drop-by 105 Henzlik Hall. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The College of Education and Human Sciences Student Services Center is staffed with professional advisers who assist students with assessing educational goals, planning programs of study, understanding program requirements and knowing policies and procedures. As course selection and registration are critical to the timely completion of their academic goals, students are well advised to seek regular academic counseling from their assigned advisers in the Center to obtain the most up-to-date information regarding current requirements and timely completion of degree programs. The Center is also staffed with professionals to coordinate field placements, student teaching, and teaching certificate application.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Ultimately, students are themselves responsible for fulfilling all the requirements of the curriculum in which they are enrolled. The intellectual mentoring relationship between academic adviser and student is protected by confidentiality and strengthened by listening with understanding to student concerns. A student remains with an adviser for the duration of the educational program unless the student changes his/her program of study.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Academic Load</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A maximum of 18 credit hours may be taken each semester (up to 4 hours in the Pre-Session; up to 7 in each five-week session; up to 9 in the eight-week session) without special authorization from the Director of Advising. UNL students must be enrolled in 12 hours in a semester to be considered full time. Most first-year students are advised to take no more than 12-15 credit hours in the first semester. This allows new students to make an easier transition from high school to college study. Most students require 2-3 hours of preparation for every hour in class, so a schedule of 12 credit hours is actually equivalent to a 36-48 hour a week job.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Outside work may interfere with academic success. The student who must work should plan to take a lighter load and consider taking some summer sessions or an extra semester or two to complete the work required for a degree. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students should check if restrictions on the number of graded hours each term govern their continued eligibility for medical/auto insurance, scholarships, and/or financial aid.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Credit Rules</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Credit by Exam</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students who believe that previous experience satisfies course requirements may approach the appropriate academic department for possible credit by exam options. Credit is rarely given simply for work experience. </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Dual Degrees</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students in the College of Education and Human Sciences may earn a bachelor of science degree from the College of Education and Human Sciences and a bachelor of science degree from another UNL college. Students must complete the degree requirements for both colleges and a minimum of 30 credit hours beyond their primary college.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Student Recognition</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Dean’s List</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A Dean’s List of Education and Human Sciences and dual matriculated students who meet the stated criteria is published in the fall and spring semesters. To be eligible, students must have a minimum semester grade point average of 3.75 in 12 or more graded semester hours. Exceptions are made for students taking required courses offered only on a Pass/No Pass basis.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Student teachers and practica students who either (1) enter the semester of student teaching with a cumulative GPA of 3.75 or above, or (2) earn a 3.75 GPA during the preceding semester on the basis of 12 or more graded semester hours, will be eligible for the Dean’s List with recommendation from the University supervisor.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Post-baccalaureate students working on certifications are eligible upon request to the Director of Advising, but only undergraduate hours apply.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Degrees with Distinction</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In recognition of outstanding academic excellence, the College of Education and Human Sciences recommends the bachelors degree With Distinction, With High Distinction and With Highest Distinction. All students graduating with distinction must meet the following criteria:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Candidates must have completed at least 60 hours at UNL (Child, Youth and Family Studies students enrolled at UNO) by the time of graduation.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Persons in teaching endorsement programs must satisfactorily complete student teaching; persons in non-endorsement programs must satisfactorily fulfill practica or other internship experiences as required by their programs of study.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Eligibility is based on the cumulative grade point average of all credit hours taken at UNL (UNO) prior to the beginning of the term in which the student receives his or her degree.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Highest Distinction.</span> Candidates for the bachelors degree who have successfully completed the program to which they were admitted and achieved a 4.0 cumulative grade point average.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">High Distinction.</span> Candidates for the bachelors degree who have successfully completed the program to which they were admitted and achieved a 3.950 thru 3.999 cumulative grade point average.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Distinction.</span> Candidates for the bachelors degree who have successfully completed the program to which they were admitted and have achieved a 3.850 thru 3.949 cumulative grade point average.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Undergraduate Scholarships and Fellowships</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In addition to the scholarships awarded by the University, the College of Education and Human Sciences awards a number of scholarships funded by various donors—individuals, organizations and foundations. Criteria for awarding these scholarships vary to meet the wishes of the donors but often include financial need, academic performance, major area of study and class standing.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Scholarships which vary in amount are awarded annually to incoming first time, transfer, and continuing College of Education and Human Sciences students. First-time freshmen need to complete the UNL Application for Admission and the FAFSA. Continuing students should complete, annually, the scholarship application through their MyRED account, and include a resume. Completion of the FAFSA is also recommended. </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Substitutions and Waivers</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In rare cases, there may be a need for students to request a special substitution or waiver to curriculum requirements. Such a request is made only in exceptional and unusual circumstances and cannot serve as an excuse for not following correct degree requirements. Specific instructions and procedures are available from students’ academic advisers in the Student Services Center, 105 Henzlik Hall.</p>
			<p class="content-box-m-p" xml:lang='en-us'>BULLETIN TO USE</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students are responsible for following the rules, policies and requirements found in the UNL Undergraduate Bulletin for the academic year in which they were last admitted to a program in the College of Education and Human Sciences. Students must complete all program requirements from a single bulletin year. In consultation with their adviser, a student may choose to move to and follow a subsequent bulletin if it is in their best interest.</p>
			<p class="content-box-m-p" xml:lang='en-us'>COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Minimum Grade Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade requirements vary from major to major. Please see the appropriate major listing or check with your adviser regarding minimum grade requirements.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Pass/No Pass Option</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>CEHS students are allowed to take up to 12 hours of Pass/No Pass (P/N) credit. The college departments vary on P/N policies. Students should check with their adviser to be certain they qualify for the Pass/No Pass option.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Appeals</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Any student enrolled in a course in the College of Education and Human Sciences who wishes to appeal alleged unfair and prejudicial treatment by a faculty member shall present his/her appeal in writing to the Dean’s Office no later than 30 days after notice of the student’s final course grade has been mailed from campus.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students may use and are encouraged to use the following sequential procedures to appeal the grade. The problem may be solved at any of the levels of the appeal procedure.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. Contact the instructor. Frequently the problems can be solved at this point.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Submit a request to the chair of the department.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. Take the case to the departmental Grading Appeals Committee. The Committee is contacted by the department chair.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. Take the case to the College Appeals, Retention and Certification Committee by contacting the Dean’s Office.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>The complaint will be forwarded to a committee consisting of faculty and student representatives. After a hearing, the Committee will make a written recommendation regarding the appeal. The Committee’s recommendation is binding on the appealing student and faculty member.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Transfer Credit Rules</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Acceptance of Transfer Grades</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">Grades earned at UNL, UNO, UNK</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Grades of D-, D, D+, and C- satisfy requirements in all programs in the College unless specified otherwise. Students who receive a grade of D-, D, D+, C-, however, are encouraged to retake the course.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Grades earned outside the University of Nebraska system</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The college will accept no more than 9 credit hours of grades less than a C from any program outside the University of Nebraska system. Grades below a C can only be applied to general education requirements and elective classes.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Maximum Number of Hours for Transfer</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Transfer courses are evaluated by the University and by the College to determine UNL and College course equivalencies. The College determines which courses will be accepted and how they will apply toward degree requirements. Sixty (60) is the maximum number of hours that will be accepted on transfer from a two-year college. Ninety (90) is the maximum number of hours that will be accepted on transfer from accredited four-year colleges and universities.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Courses taken 10 years before admission or readmission to the College will be evaluated by the major department to determine if it is appropriate to accept those courses for transfer credit and for application to degree requirements. Specific courses will be reviewed in keeping with the guidelines specified by each department.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Transfer Credit from Technical, Non-Accredited and Foreign Institutions</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students who desire to transfer from these institutions must have each course evaluated by the appropriate departmental representative. All rules stated above in reference to grades and maximum credit hours apply. For additional information and guidance in this process contact the Dean’s Office.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Transfer Agreements with UNO and UNK</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Transfer agreements between the three institutions within the University System allow for a smooth transition for students interested in taking courses from UNO, UNK, and/or UNL. Although restrictions noted above on grades and maximum transfer hours still apply, there are some exceptions. For purposes of residency, courses from UNO and UNK fulfill these requirements. Students planning to major in a program in the college should read the specific requirements noted with individual programs. Questions about academic transfer should be addressed to the Advising Office.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Transfer Agreements with Community Colleges</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Articulation agreements and “Transfer with Ease Programs” with Nebraska community colleges indicate how courses and programs will transfer to UNL and the College of Education and Human Sciences. The same guidelines noted above on the acceptance of courses, grades, and hours also apply to these institutions. Students interested in transferring from a community college should consult with their school or the Student Services Center to determine which courses will transfer to fulfill specific College of Education and Human Sciences requirements.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Courses from accredited two-year institutions will generally not be substituted for 400-level human sciences classes in the College. The 300-level courses will be considered on an individual basis by the respective departments in the College of Education and Human Sciences.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Courses taken prior to course articulation agreements will be accepted contingent upon departmental validation of the credit.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Residency Rules</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students must earn a minimum of 120 credit hours to earn a degree. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All students are expected to complete at least 30 of their final 36 hours of credit at UNL.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Degree Application Process </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>It is the student’s responsibility to notify Graduation Services, 109 Canfield Administration Building, early in the semester the student plans to graduate. Failure to meet the published deadline will delay graduation one full term. Students are encouraged to regularly review their degree audits with their adviser to ensure that they are on the right track toward graduation.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DEGREES &amp; MAJORS &amp;/or ENDORSEMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Alphabetical Listing</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Athletic Training </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Biology Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Business, Marketing and Information Technology Education (6-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Chemistry Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Child Development/Early Childhood Education</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Child, Youth and Family Studies/Journalism and Mass Communications</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Culinary Science</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Early Care and Education (Birth-K)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Earth and Space Science Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Elementary Education (K-6)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Elementary Education (K-6) and Deaf or Hard of Hearing Education</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Elementary Education (K-6) and Mild/Moderate Disabilities (K-6)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Elementary Education (K-6) and Early Childhood Education (Birth-K)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>English Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>English/Journalism and Mass Communications Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Family and Consumer Science Education (6-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Family Science</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>French Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>German Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Hospitality, Restaurant and Tourism Management</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Inclusive Early Childhood Education (Birth-3)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Language Arts Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Latin Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Mathematics Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Merchandising</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Nutrition and Dietetics</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Nutrition Science</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Nutrition, Exercise and Health Science</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Physics Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Russian Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Science Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Social Science Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Spanish Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Special Education–Mild/Moderate Disabilities Education (7-12) <span class="list-ital">(listed under Mild/Moderate)</span></p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Speech and English Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Speech-Language Pathologist</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Textile and Apparel Design</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Textile Science</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Textiles, Merchandising and Fashion Design/Communications</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Theatre and English Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Departmental Listing</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Child, Youth and Family Studies</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Child Development/Early Childhood Education</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Child, Youth and Family Studies/Journalism and Mass Communications</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Early Care and Education (Birth-K)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Family and Consumer Science Education (6-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Family Science</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Inclusive Early Childhood Education (Birth-3)</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Nutrition and Health Sciences</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Athletic Training</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Culinary Science</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Hospitality, Restaurant and Tourism Management</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Nutrition and Dietetics</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Nutrition Science</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Nutrition, Exercise and Health Science</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Special Education and Communication Disorders</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Elementary Education (K-6) and Deaf or Hard of Hearing Education</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Elementary Education (K-6) and Mild/Moderate Disabilities Education (K-6)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Special Education–Mild/Moderate Disabilities Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Speech-Language Pathology</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Teaching, Learning and Teacher Education </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Biology Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Business, Marketing and Information Technology Education (6-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Chemistry Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Earth and Space Science Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Elementary Education (K-6)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Elementary Education (K-6) and Deaf or Hard of Hearing Education</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Elementary Education (K-6) and Mild/Moderate Disabilities (K-6)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Elementary Education (K-6) and Early Childhood Education (Birth-K)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>English Education (7-12) </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>English/Journalism and Mass Communications Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>French Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>German Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Language Arts Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Latin Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Mathematics Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Physics Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Russian Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Science Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Social Science Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Spanish Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Speech and English Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Theatre and English Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Textiles, Clothing and Design </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Merchandising</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Textile and Apparel Design</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Textiles Science</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Textiles, Merchandising and Fashion Design/Communications</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Teaching Endorsements Leading to Certification</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Biology Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Business, Marketing and Information Technology Education (6-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Chemistry Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Early Care and Education (Birth-K)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Earth and Space Science Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Elementary Education (K-6) </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Elementary Education (K-6) and Deaf or Hard of Hearing Education</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Elementary Education (K-6) and Mild/Moderate Disabilities (K-6)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Elementary Education (K-6) and Early Childhood Education (Birth-K)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>English Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>English/Journalism and Mass Communication Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Family <span class="no-style-override">and</span> Consumer Science Education (6-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>French Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>German Education (7-12) </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Inclusive Early Childhood Education (Birth-3)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Language Arts Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Latin Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Mathematics Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Physics Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Russian Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Science Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Social Science Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Special Education–Mild/Moderate Disabilities Education (7-12) <span class="list-ital">(listed under Mild/Moderate)</span></p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Spanish Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Speech and English Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Theatre and English Education (7-12)</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>GRADUATE STUDENT INFORMATION</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Post-Baccalaureate &amp; Graduate Teacher Certification Programs</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>General &amp; Admission Information</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students who have received a bachelors degree or higher and desire to obtain an initial teaching certificate may do so by pursuing a post-baccalaureate initial teaching certification program with or without a masters degree, with the exception of those programs in the Department of Teaching, Learning and Teacher Education, where the certification program must be obtained with a masters degree program. Students must apply (1) to the Graduate College for admission to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln at: www.unl.edu/gradstudies and apply online. On the application form, under Part III: Admission Objective, you should select: Non-Degree, for Nebraska Department of Education Certification (Teaching Certificate–initial). For those teachers who already hold an initial certificate and wish to add a teaching endorsement or renew a certificate, you follow the same procedure above but select: (Adding endorsement(s) or renewing certificate).</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Those students seeking a masters degree along with their teacher certification program, added endorsement, or renewed certificate, will need to submit a (2) SECOND application to the Graduate College, at the same address listed above, and indicate under Part III–which degree program you choose. You may need to submit another application (3) to the specific teacher certification program of your choice, in addition to the first two applications mentioned above. See post-baccalaureate program coordinator for more information. All students seeking a non-degree initial certification program, wishing to add n endorsement or renew a lapsed certificate must contact the post-baccalaureate program coordinator, Joyce Richter at jrichter1@unl.edu or 402-472-8635.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Graduate-Level Initial Teacher Certification Programs</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Business, Marketing &amp; Information Technology (Grades 6-12) 46-76 hours:</span> <span class="basic-text-ital">Must also enroll in a masters degree program. Students need 1,000 hours paid business-related work experience or TEAC 297J for 0-2 hrs.</span> EDPS 851, EDPS 854 (3 hrs ea); SPED 834 (3 hrs); TEAC 229, TEAC 323, TEAC 397J, TEAC 443, TEAC 444, TEAC 451K, TEAC 452J, TEAC 803B, TEAC 825, (830 or 831 or 834), 861 (3 hrs ea); TEAC 897J (4 hrs). The following are also required but may have already been completed with an undergraduate degree and may transfer into the program: ACCT 201, ACCT 202 (3 hrs ea); BLAW 371 (3 hrs); ECON 211, ECON 212 (3 hrs ea); FINA 260 (3 hrs); MNGT 121 or ENTR 121 (3 hrs); MRKT 341, MRKT 345, MRKT 347 (3 hrs ea). Contact: Department of Teaching, Learning and Teacher Education, 402-472-2231.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Elementary Education (Grades K-6 and MA</span><span class="superscript">ET</span><span class="header-paragraph-title"> masters degree) 44 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">A 14-month accelerated program with masters degree. </span>TEAC 893, 894A (1 hr ea); TEAC 800, 801, 808, 811A, 822A, 840D, 841, 842A, 889, 890, (3 hrs ea); TEAC 897A (6 hrs), CYAF 971 (3 hrs); SPED 801A (3 hrs). Contact: Department of Teaching, Learning and Teacher Education, 402-472-2231.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Family and Consumer Science Education (Grades 6-12) 90-91 hours: </span>CYAF 160X, CYAF 222, CYAF 280, CYAF 333, CYAF 380, CYAF 382, CYAF 803B, CYAF 851 (3 hrs ea); CYAF 852 (4 hrs); CYAF 894J (2 hrs); CYAF 897J (10 hrs); NUTR 244 (3 hrs); NUTR 245 (1 hr); NUTR 250, 372, (TMFD 123 or CYAF 493) (3 hrs ea); EDPS 851, 854 (3 hrs ea); EDPS 297 (1 hr); SPED 801B (3 hrs); TEAC 825, (830 or 831 or 834), 861, 880A (3 hrs ea). <span class="header-paragraph-title">Select one of three plans for additional content from the following areas 15-16 hrs: Nutrition and Health:</span> NUTR 100, NUTR 131, NUTR 251, NUTR 253, NUTR 344, NUTR 430 (15 hrs); <span class="header-paragraph-title">Hospitality and Food Service:</span> HRTM 289, HRTM 373, HRTM 477, HRTM 489; NUTR 370, NUTR 371 (16 hrs); <span class="header-paragraph-title">Textiles, Merchandising and Fashion Design:</span> TMFD 123X <span class="header-paragraph-title">or</span> CYAF 493, TMFD 206, TMFD 212, TMFD 213, TMFD 325, TMFD 325, TMFD 407, TMFD 408, TMFD 410 (15 hrs); <span class="header-paragraph-title">Family Studies:</span> CYAF 285, CYAF 322, CYAF 446, CYAF 458, CYAF 488, CYAF 493, CYAF 495 (15 hrs); or <span class="header-paragraph-title">Child Studies:</span> CYAF 271/L, CYAF 371, CYAF 374, CYAF 383, CYAF 384, CYAF 385, CYAF 474 (15 hrs); <span class="header-paragraph-title">Health Occupations:</span> CYAF 446, CYAF 471, CLAS 166, GERO 200, GERO 307, PSYC 280, PHIL 106, PHIL 206. Contact: Department of Child, Youth and Family Studies, 402-472-8209.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">French Education (Grades 7-12) 80 hours:</span> <span class="basic-text-ital">Must also enroll in a masters degree program.</span> FREN 101, FREN 102 (5 hrs ea); FREN 201, FREN 202, FREN 203, FREN 204, FREN 301, FREN 302, FREN 303, FREN 304, FREN 319 (3 hrs ea); select two from the following: FREN 321, FREN 322, or FREN 323 (6 hrs); one FREN 400-level course (3 hrs); EDPS 851, EDPS 854 (3 hrs ea); SPED 801B (3 hrs); TEAC 803B, (830 or 831 or 834), 851R, 852R, 861, 880A, 894R (3 hrs ea); TEAC 897R (4 hrs). Contact: Department of Teaching, Learning and Teacher Education, 402-472-2231.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">German Education (Grades 7-12) 80 hours:</span> <span class="basic-text-ital">Must also enroll in a masters degree program. </span>GERM 101, GERM 102 (5 hrs ea); GERM 201, GERM 202, GERM 203, 204, GERM 301, GERM 302, GERM 303, GERM 304, GERM 321, GERM 398 (3 hrs ea); two GERM 400-level courses (3 hrs ea); EDPS 851, 854 (3 hrs ea); SPED 801B (3 hrs); TEAC 803B, (830 or 831 or 834), 851R, 852R, 861, 880A, 894R (3 hrs ea); TEAC 897R (4 hrs). Contact: Department of Teaching, Learning and Teacher Education, 402-472-2231.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Inclusive Early Childhood Education (Birth-Grade 3) 98 hours: </span>CYAF 160 or CYAF 170, CYAF 271, CYAF 374, CYAF 380, CYAF 874 (3 hrs ea); CYAF 270 (2 hrs); CYAF 270L, CYAF 271L and CYAF 374/L (1 hr ea); CYAF 497A (9 hrs); EDPS 851 (3 hrs); MATH 300 (3 hrs); SLPA 251 (3 hrs); SPED 201, SPED 303, SPED 362, SPED 815 (3 hrs ea); SPED 496Y and SPED 815A (1 hr ea); TEAC 297A (2 hrs); TEAC 302, TEAC 305, TEAC 397D, TEAC 403A, TEAC 816A, TEAC 816B, TEAC 816D, (830 or 831 or 834), 861, 880A (3 hrs ea); TEAC 497A (8 hrs). Contact: Department of Special Education and Communication Disorders, 402-472-2141.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Latin Education (Grades 7-12) 72-79 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must also enroll in a masters degree program. </span>LATN 101 and LATN 102 (5 hrs ea) <span class="header-paragraph-title">or</span> LATN 151 (3 hrs) if a student has had 2-4 years of Latin or Greek in high school); LATN 301, LATN 302, LATN 303, LATN 304, LATN 350, LATN 399, LATN 456, LATN 491, LATN 492 (3 hrs ea); GREK 102 (5 hrs); select one course from the following: ENGL 322A, ENGL 322B, ENGL 420, ENGL 427 or TEAC 438 (3 hrs); EDPS 851, 854 (3 hrs ea); SPED 801B (3 hrs); TEAC 803B, (830 or 831 or 834), 851R, 852R, 861, 880A, 894R (3 hrs ea); TEAC 897R (4 hrs). Contact: Department of Teaching, Learning and Teacher Education, 402-472-2231.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Math Education (Grades 7-12 and MA</span><span class="superscript">MT</span><span class="header-paragraph-title"> masters degree) 42 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">A 14-month program with masters degree. Must have a bachelors degree in science, technology, engineering or mathematics and have completed 21 hours in mathematics at the calculus level with a grade of B or better. Successful completion of the Praxis II Math Content Exams (0061) and (0063) required for application. </span>TEAC 800, 801, 840D, 851P, 852P, 889, (3 hrs ea); 894P (2 hrs); 897P (4 hrs); SPED 801B (3 hrs); EDPS 991 (3 hrs); MATH 810T, 896, 896 (3 hrs ea); MATH elective (3 hrs)—chosen with adviser. Contact: Department of Teaching, Learning and Teacher Education, 402-472-2231.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Russian Education (Grades 7-12) 80 hours:</span> <span class="basic-text-ital">Must also enroll in a masters degree program.</span> RUSS 101, RUSS 102 (5 hrs ea); RUSS 201, RUSS 202, RUSS 301, RUSS 302, 303, RUSS 304, RUSS 398 (3 hrs ea); select five courses from the following: RUSS 399, RUSS 408, RUSS 441, RUSS 442, RUSS 482, RUSS 498 (3 hrs ea); EDPS 851, 854 (3 hrs ea); SPED 801B (3 hrs); TEAC 803B, (830 or 831 or 834), 851R, 852R, 861, 880A, 894R (3 hrs ea); TEAC 897R (4 hrs). Contact: Department of Teaching, Learning and Teacher Education, 402-472-2231.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Science Education (Grades 7-12 and MA</span><span class="superscript">ST</span><span class="header-paragraph-title"> masters degree) 42 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">A 14-month program with masters degree. All content course requirements must be completed prior to starting the program. For a single subject endorsement (biology or chemistry or physics or earth and space science), must have 24 hrs of lab-based courses in one subject area and 12 hrs of lab-based courses distributed equally among the other three ancillary areas. For a field endorsement in science, must have 24 hrs of lab-based courses in one core subject area and a minimum of 12 hrs each of lab-based courses in the other ancillary science areas. </span>TEAC 800, 801, 803B, 813M, 842E, 851V, 852V, 861, 880A, 889 (3 hrs ea); TEAC 894V (2 hrs); TEAC 897V (4 hrs); SPED 801B (3 hrs); EDPS 991 (3 hrs). Contact: Department of Teaching, Learning and Teacher Education, 402-472-2231.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Spanish Education (Grades 7-12) 80 hours:</span> <span class="basic-text-ital">Must also enroll in a masters degree program.</span> SPAN 101, SPAN 102 (5 hrs ea); SPAN 201, SPAN 202, SPAN 203, SPAN 204, SPAN 303, SPAN 304, SPAN 319, SPAN 321, SPAN 331, SPAN 403 or SPAN 405 (3 hrs ea); select two classes from the following: SPAN 304, SPAN 311, SPAN 312, SPAN 314, SPAN 315, SPAN 317, SPAN 398 (3 hrs ea); EDPS 851, 854 (3 hrs ea); SPED 801B (3 hrs); TEAC 803B, (830 or 831 or 834), 851R, 852R, 861, 880A, 894R (3 hrs ea); TEAC 897R (4 hrs). Contact: Department of Teaching, Learning and Teacher Education, 402-472-2231.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Special Education–Mild/Moderate Disabilities (Grades K-6) 44 hours: </span>TEAC 430/830 or TEAC 431/831 or TEAC 434/834, TEAC 861, TEAC 259 or TEAC 880A (3 hrs ea); EDPS 450/850 and EDPS 454/854 (3 hrs ea); SPED 400/800, SPED 412/812, SPED 414/814, SPED 303 or SPED 818, SPED 820, SPED 480/880 (3 hrs ea); SPED 415/815 and SPED 415A/815A (2 hrs ea); SPED 496M/896M (1 hr); SPED 497M/897M (6 hrs). Contact: Department of Special Education and Communication Disorders, 402-472-2141.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Special Education–Mild/Moderate Disabilities (Grades 7-12) 44 hours: </span>TEAC 430/830 or TEAC 431/831 or TEAC 434/834, TEAC 861, TEAC 259 or TEAC 880A (3 hrs ea); EDPS 451/851 and EDPS 454/854 (3 hrs ea); SPED 400/800, SPED 407/807, SPED 412/812, SPED 303 or SPED 818, SPED 820, SPED 480/880 (3 hrs ea); SPED 406/806, 406A/806A (2 hrs ea); and SPED 496M/896M (1 hr); SPED 497M/897M (6 hrs). Contact: Department of Special Education and Communication Disorders, 402-472-2141.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Special Education–Mild/Moderate Disabilities (Grades K-12) 54 hours: </span>TEAC 430/830 or TEAC 431/831 or TEAC 434/834, TEAC 861, TEAC 259 or TEAC 880A (3 hrs ea); EDPS 450/850, EDPS 451/851, EDPS 454/854 (3 hrs ea); SPED 400/800, SPED 407/807, SPED 412/812, SPED 414/814, SPED 303 or SPED 818, SPED 820, SPED 480/880 (3 hrs ea); SPED 406/806, SPED 406A/806A, SPED 415/815, SPED 415A/815A (2 hrs ea); SPED 496M/896M (1 hr); SPED 497M/897M (6 hrs). Contact: Department of Special Education and Communication Disorders, 402-472-2141.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Graduate-Level Added or Supplementary Endorsements and Administrative Certificates/ Endorsements</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Assessment Leadership (Grades P-12) 18 hours:</span> <span class="basic-text-ital">Must have or qualify for a standard teaching certificate and complete a masters degree or specialist program. Persons with this endorsement may assist in or facilitate the development of assessment programs for students in Pre-Kindergarten through grade 12. </span>TEAC 849A, 849B, 849E, 849J (3 hrs ea); 991 (6 hrs). Contact: Department of Teaching, Learning and Teacher Education, 402-472-2231.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Counselor, School Guidance (Grades K-6) 47 hours:</span> <span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid initial teaching certificate and 2 years of teaching experience and must also be admitted into a masters degree program in Educational Psychology.</span> EDPS 800, 850, 853, 859, 866, 868, 869 or 985, 870, 964, 965A, 974, 975, 984 (3 hrs ea); 997A, 997B (4 hrs ea). To add a 7-12 endorsement to this, a student must also take EDPS 851 and 997B at the 7-12 grade level. Contact: Department of Educational Psychology, 402-472-2223.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Counselor, School Guidance (Grades 7-12) 47 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid initial teaching certificate and 2 years of teaching experience and must also be admitted into a masters degree program in Educational Psychology.</span> EDPS 800, 851, 853, 859, 866, 868, 869 or 985, 870, 964, 965A, 974, 975, 984 (3 hrs ea); 997A, 997B (4 hrs ea). To add a K-6 endorsement to this, a student must also take EDPS 850 and 997B at the K-6 grade level. Contact: Department of Educational Psychology, 402-472-2223.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Curriculum Supervisor (Grades PK-12) 36 hours:</span> <span class="basic-text-ital">This is an Administrative Certificate/Endorsement that requires the completion of 36 graduate hours. For admission to the masters degree or certificate program and to be recommended for administrative certification and endorsement, students must also satisfy additional NDE state requirements, including but not limited to, possession of a valid Regular Teaching Certificate, evidence of two years of successful teaching experience, human relations training, special education training, and basic skills competency. Candidates must apply to both the Department of Educational Administration and to the Department of Teaching Learning and Teacher Education. </span>EDAD 811, 830, 851, 903, 948 (3 hrs ea); select 3 hrs from the following: EDAD 833, 837, 852; TEAC 800, 801, 888 (3 hrs ea); 6 hrs of approved graduate courses selected from TEAC 846A, 846B, 848, 944, 944A, 944B, 944D, 944E (3 hrs ea); 3 hrs of foundations of education selected from TEAC 830, 831, 832, 834, 840, 840A, 840B, 840D, 861, 902 (3 hrs ea). Each student must satisfactorily complete a Professional Portfolio, approved by an adviser. Contact: Department of Educational Administration, 402-472-3728 and the Department of Teaching Learning and Teacher Education 402-472-2231. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Deaf or Hard of Hearing/Subject (Grades P-12) 30-45 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid initial teaching certificate in Elementary Education, Middle Grades, or Special Education-Mild/Moderate Disabilities. Students without a Special Education certificate are required to take the listed prerequisite courses. Proficiency requirements: Demonstrated proficiency in American Sign Language: successful completion of SLPA 202 or minimum score on Sign Communication Proficiency Interview or EIPA or other approved measure before completion of the program. </span><span class="header-paragraph-title">Prerequisites:</span> SPED 400/800, 412/812, 414/814, 303/818 (3 hrs ea); SLPA 250 or 251 or SPED 876 (3 hrs). <span class="header-paragraph-title">Core Requirements:</span> SPED 472/872, 873, 874, 875, 896D, 897D, 960, (3 hrs ea); SLPA 450/850, SLPA/SPED 884, SLPA/SPED 956 (3 hrs ea). Contact: Department of Special Education and Communication Disorders, 402-472-2141.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Early Childhood Special Education (Birth thru Grade 3) 27-39 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid initial teaching certificate in Elementary Education (K-6), Mild/Moderate Disabilities (K-6), and Early Childhood Education (P-3) or Inclusive Early Childhood (Birth thru grade 3).</span> <span class="header-paragraph-title">Prerequisites:</span> SPED 800, 812, 818, 815, (or equivalents) (3 hrs ea). <span class="header-paragraph-title">Required completion (or equivalent):</span> CYAF 970, (SPED 876 or SLPA 251), SPED 860, 861, 862, 863, 882, 960 and 879Q (3 hrs ea). Contact: Department of Special Education and Communication Disorders, 402-472-2141. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">English as a 2nd Language (Grades K-12) 18 hours:</span> <span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid initial teaching certificate or parallel with one in progress. </span>TEAC 813A, 813B, 813J, 813K or 838, 813M, 897E (3 hrs ea). Contact: Department of Teaching, Learning and Teacher Education, 402-472-2231. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Information Technology (Grades K-12) 19 hours:</span> <span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid initial teaching certificate or parallel with one in progress. </span>TEAC 851L, 860, 882A, 882B, 882D, 882J (3 hrs ea); TEAC 894L (1 hr). Contact: Department of Teaching, Learning and Teacher Education, 402-472-2231. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Middle Level (Grades 4-9) 47-56 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid Elementary Education certificate from the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. </span>TEAC 446/846, 897Q (3 hrs ea). (TEAC 897Q can be waived if student teaching was completed in a 6th grade classroom.) Choose two subject areas from the four listed below 20-25 hrs: <span class="header-paragraph-title">Language Arts (20-21 hrs): </span>ENGL 252/852 or 253/853 (3 hrs); select one course from ENGL 254, 354/854 or 357 (3 hrs); select one course from ENGL 361A, 332/832 or 333/833 (3 hrs); TEAC 302, 439/839, 441/841 (3 hrs ea); TEAC 317 (2 hrs). <span class="header-paragraph-title">Math (23-25 hrs):</span><span class="basic-text-bold"> </span>MATH 106 (5 hrs); MATH 107 (5 hrs) or MATH 302 (3 hrs); MATH 300M or MATH 800T (3 hrs); STAT 218 (3 hrs); STAT 203 or STAT 405/805T (3 hrs); STAT 302 or STAT 350 (3 hrs); select one course from STAT 304/804T or STAT 306 or STAT 310/858T (3 hrs). <span class="header-paragraph-title">Natural Science (21-25 hrs): </span>BIOS 101 (3 hrs) and BIOS 101L (1 hr); BIOS 232 or NRES 814 (3 hrs); GEOL 101 (4 hrs) or NRES 822 (3 hrs); select one course from AGRO 131 (3 hrs) &amp; AGRO 132 (1 hr) <span class="header-paragraph-title">or</span> ENTO 108 (3 hrs) &amp; ENTO 116 (1 hr) <span class="header-paragraph-title">or</span> ENTO 115 (3 hrs) &amp; ENTO 116 (1 hr) <span class="header-paragraph-title">or</span> ENTO 410/810 (3 hrs); and select one option: <span class="basic-text-bold">Option 1:</span> PHYS 260, PHYS 261 (3 hrs ea); PHYS 262 (1 hr) (7 hrs); <span class="basic-text-bold">Option 2:</span> CHEM 109 (4 hrs); ASTR 103 (3 hrs); PHYS 115 (3 hrs) (10 hrs). <span class="basic-text-bold">Social Science 24 hrs:</span> ECON 211 or ECON 850 (3 hrs); GEOG 272 (3 hrs); HIST 101, HIST 120, HIST 201, HIST 201, HIST 202, either HIST 359 or HIST 360 (3 hrs ea); POLS 100 (3 hrs). Contact: Department of Teaching, Learning and Teacher Education, 402-472-2231.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Pre-School Disabilities (Birth-K) 30-39 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid initial teaching certificate in Special Education or Speech Pathology. </span><span class="basic-text-bold">Prerequisites:</span> SPED 800, 812, 818 (or equivalents) (3 hrs ea). <span class="basic-text-bold">Required completion (or equivalent):</span> SPED 860, 861, 862, 863, 876, 882, 960 or SLPA 251 (3 hrs ea); SPED 897Q (6 hrs); CYAF 970 or equivalent (3 hrs). Contact: Department of Special Education and Communication Disorders, 402-472-2141. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Principal, Elementary (Grades PK-8) 36 hours:</span> This is an Administrative Certificate/Endorsement that requires the completion of 36 graduate hours. For admission to the masters degree or certificate program and to be recommended for administrative certification and endorsement, students must also satisfy additional NDE state requirements, including but not limited to, possession of a valid Regular Teaching Certificate, evidence of two years of successful teaching experience at the PK-8 level, human relations training, special education training, and basic skills competency<span class="basic-text-ital">. </span>EDAD 811, 830, 833, 837, 851, 852, 903, 981 (3 hrs ea); TEAC 801 or 848 or 944 (3 hrs); TEAC 800 or 946 or 948 (3 hrs); and an approved College of Education and Human Sciences course outside the departments of EDAD or TLTE (3 hrs); an elective approved by an adviser (3 hrs). Each student must satisfactorily complete a Professional Portfolio approved by an adviser. Contact: Department of Educational Administration, 402-472-3728. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Principal, Secondary (Grades 7-12) 36 hours:</span> This is an Administrative Certificate/Endorsement that requires the completion of 36 graduate hours. <span class="basic-text-ital">For admission to the masters degree or certificate program and to be recommended for administrative certification and endorsement, students must also satisfy additional NDE state requirements, including but not limited to, possession of a valid Regular Teaching Certificate, evidence of two years of successful teaching experience, human relations training, special education training, and basic skills competency.</span> EDAD 811, 830, 833, 837, 851, 852, 903, 981 (3 hrs ea); TEAC 801 or 848 or 944 (3 hrs); TEAC 800 or 946 or 948 (3 hrs); and an approved College of Education and Human Sciences course outside the departments of EDAD or TLTE (3 hrs); and an elective approved by an adviser (3 hrs). Each student must satisfactorily complete a Professional Portfolio, approved by an adviser. Contact: Department of Educational Administration, 402-472-3728. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Reading Specialist (Grades P-12) 30-32 hours:</span> <span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid initial teaching certificate and one year of teaching experience. Persons with this endorsement may teach, provide leadership for professional development in the area of reading, and assess and interpret data to determine and implement instructional options for teaching students.</span> TEAC 802, 811, 836A, 838, 839, 841, TEAC/SPED 886, 886B (3 hrs ea); TEAC/ENGL 957B (6 hrs) or select 6-8 hrs from the following list: TEAC 817, 854B, 890, 990, 921, 950, 951, 952, 953 (3 hrs ea) <span class="header-paragraph-title">or</span> TEAC/EDPS 989 (3 hrs) <span class="header-paragraph-title">or</span> SPED 805 (3 hrs) parallel with 805A (1 hr) <span class="header-paragraph-title">or</span> TEAC/SPED 806 (3 hrs) parallel with 806A (1 hr) <span class="header-paragraph-title">or</span> SPED 815 (3 hrs) parallel with 815A (1 hr). Contact: Department of Teaching, Learning and Teacher Education, 402-472-2231. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">School Psychologist (Grades P-12) 65 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have an undergraduate degree in psychology, educational psychology, education or a related field. This is an educational specialist degree program. </span>EDPS (850 or 851), 854, 860, 863, 867, 869, 900B (3 hrs ea); 950 (4 hrs); 951, 952, 954 (3 hrs ea); 957B (8 hrs); 948 or 868 (3 hrs); 958A (8 hrs); 996A (6 hrs); SPED (6 hrs). Contact: Department of Educational Psychology, 402-472-2223. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">School Transition Specialist (Grades 7-12) 18 hours:</span> <span class="basic-text-ital">Persons with this Special Services Counseling Endorsement may counsel and provide services for youth with disabilities and consult with teachers, parents, and students. There are three undergraduate courses that may be taken to prepare for this endorsement or which may qualify an undergraduate student for a provisional endorsement as a Transition Specialist, however the Transition Specialist endorsement cannot be completed at the undergraduate level; graduate level courses must be taken to complete the endorsement.</span> SPED 400/800 <span class="header-paragraph-title">or</span> SPED 434/834, SPED 407/807, SPED 408/808 <span class="header-paragraph-title">or</span> SPED 893, SPED 436/836, SPED 896T, and SPED 908 (3 hrs ea). Contact: Department of Special Education and Communication Disorders, 402-472-2141.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Severe/Multiple Disabilities-Autism (Grades P-12) 23 hours:</span> <span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid initial teaching certificate in Special Education, Mild/Moderate Disabilities or equivalent. </span>SPED 480/880, 809, 881, 882, 897P (3 hrs ea); 810, 896P, 980, 981 (2 hrs ea). Contact: Department of Special Education and Communication Disorders, 402-472-2141.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Superintendent (Grades PK-12) 66 hours:</span> This is an Administrative Certificate/Endorsement that requires the completion of 60 graduate hours and completion of a specialist of doctoral program in educational administration. <span class="basic-text-ital">For admission to the six year specialist program or the Ed.D. and to be recommended for administrative certification and endorsement, students must also satisfy additional NDE state requirements, including but not limited to, possession of a valid Regular Teaching Certificate, evidence of two years of successful teaching experience, human relations training, special education training, and basic skills competency.</span> EDAD 801, 811, 830, 833, 835, 837, 851, 852, 901, 903, 905, 906, 981, 998 (3 hrs ea); select 3 hours from the following: TEAC 801 <span class="header-paragraph-title">or</span> TEAC 848 <span class="header-paragraph-title">or</span> TEAC 944; select 3 hours from the following: TEAC 800 <span class="header-paragraph-title">or</span> TEAC 946 <span class="header-paragraph-title">or</span> TEAC 948; an approved College of Education and Human Sciences course outside the departments of EDAD or TLTE (3 hrs); approved electives (15 hrs) with the recommendation of no more than 6 hrs from the department of EDAD. Each student must satisfactorily complete a Professional Portfolio, approved by an adviser. Contact: Department of Educational Administration, 402-472-3728.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Supervisor of Special Education Programs (Grades PK-12) 36 hours: </span>This is an Administrative Certificate/Endorsement that will appear as “Curriculum Supervisor, Special Education P-12” and requires the completion of 36 graduate hours. <span class="basic-text-ital">For admission to the masters degree or certificate program and to be recommended for administrative certification and endorsement, students must also satisfy additional NDE state requirements, including but not limited to, possession of a valid Regular Teaching Certificate in Special Education, evidence of two years of successful teaching experience, human relations training, and basic skills competency. Candidates must apply to both the Department of Educational Administration and to the Department of Special Education and Communication Disorders and will have two advisers.</span> EDAD 811, 830, 981 (3 hrs ea); select 9 hrs from the following: EDAD 833, 837, 851, 852, or 903 (3 hrs ea); EDAD/SPED 857, 858 (3 hrs ea); 12 hrs of approved graduate courses in special education, taken within the past 6 years; 6 of these hours must be outside of the person’s endorsement area. (EDAD/SPED 856, Supervising Special Education is highly recommended.) Each student must satisfactorily complete a Professional Portfolio, approved by an adviser. Contact: Department of Educational Administration, 402-472-3728 and the Department of Special Education and Communication Disorders, 402-472-2141.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Visual Impairment (Grades P-12) 33-39 hours:</span> <span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a standard teaching certificate and be admitted into the Visually Impaired program. Persons with this endorsement may teach students with visual impairments from birth through age 21. Visual impairment includes blindness, low vision (legal blindness and low vision) and vision loss associated with other impairments.</span> If your endorsement is not in special education, the following core classes must be completed: SPED 800 and SPED 814 (3 hrs ea). <span class="basic-text-bold">Requirements</span>: SPED 846, 847, 849, 851, 852, 853, 882 (3 hrs ea); 852A (1 hr), 852B (2 hrs); 897V (3 hrs); guided electives in special education (6 hrs) selected with adviser; braille proficiency exam. Contact: Department of Special Education and Communication Disorders, 402-472-2141. </p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MINORS &amp; AREAS OF SPECIALIZATIONS OFFERED</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Minors Available</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CEHS International Minor – 12-18 hours</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Child, Youth and Family Studies Minor – 18 hours</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Coaching Minor – 15 hours</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Education Minor – 18 hours</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Hospitality, Restaurant and Tourism Management Minor – 18 hours</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>Textiles, Merchandising and Fashion Design Minor – 15 hours</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Supplemental Education Endorsements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>To pursue a supplemental endorsement, students must either hold a valid teaching certificate or be pursuing a teacher education program. Please contact an academic adviser or the specified contact person for information regarding any of the following supplemental endorsements.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Coaching (Grades 7-12) 15 hours:</span> Persons with this endorsement may coach interscholastic athletic events for participants in grades 7 through 11. ATHT 235 (3 hrs); ATHC 279 and ATHC 494 ((3 hrs ea)). Select three from the following: ATHC 311, ATHC 312, ATHC 317, ATHC 318 (6 hrs). Contact: Dr Tom Wandzilak, 116 Henzlik Hall, twandzilak1@unl.edu, 402-472-8626.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Cooperative Education–Diversified Occupations (Grades 9-12) 6-8 hours: </span>An endorsement in Business, Marketing and Information Technology or Industrial Technology is required. Persons with this endorsement may coordinate, teach and supervise programs of instruction that develop career and life skills. TEAC 425/825 or ALEC 234 (3 hrs); SPED 434/834 or ALEC 424 (3 hrs); 1,000 hours of approved work experience or TEAC 297 or ALEC 390 0-2 hrs. Contact your adviser.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">English as a 2nd Language–Undergraduate (Grades K-12) 9-18 hours: </span>Persons with this endorsement may teach English as a second language in grades K through 12. There are three undergraduate courses that may be taken to prepare for this endorsement or which may qualify an undergraduate student for a provisional endorsement in ESL, however, the ESL endorsement cannot be completed at the undergraduate level; graduate level courses must be taken to complete the endorsement. TEAC 413A, 413K and 413M. Please see adviser and/or Joyce Richter at jrichter1@unl.edu or 402/ 472-8635 for list of graduate courses to complete the endorsement.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Information Technology (Grades K-12) 17 hours:</span> Persons with this endorsement may teach information technology courses in grades K through 12.</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span> Endorsement in business and marketing education required. TEAC 323, 444 and 451L (3 hrs ea); 397L (1 hr); CSCE 101 and 150 (3 hrs ea); CSCE 101L (1 hr). Contact your CEHS adviser. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Skilled and Technical Science Education (Grades 9-12) 12-15 hours: </span>An endorsement in Agricultural Education or Industrial Technology Education is required. Candidate must also have or earn a Cooperative Education/Diversified Occupations endorsement. Persons with this endorsement may teach Skilled and Technical Science Education (formerly Trade and Industrial Education).</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The following courses are taken through the Community Colleges. Select a minimum of 12 hours from one of the following groups and have your selection approved by your CASNR adviser:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>(1) ARCH 1160 (4 hrs), ARCH 1150 (1 hr); CNST 1100, 1200, 1300 (3 hrs ea)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>(2) MACH 1100, 1101, 1102 (3 hrs ea); WELD 1080 (4 hrs), WELD 1060 (3 hrs), WELD 1070 (2 hrs), WELD 1090 (1 hr)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>(3) DRAF 1120, 1220 (3 hrs ea); ELEC 1110 (3 hrs), ELEC 1129 (5 hrs); ENGR 1010, 1100, 1140 (3 hrs ea)</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>(4) AUTT 1000, 1100 (1 hr ea), AUTT 1103 (2 hrs), AUTT 1003 (3 hrs), AUTT 1106, 1221 (4 hrs ea)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Contact your CASNR adviser.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
