<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Engineering Main Page 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="engineering-main-page-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>College of Engineering</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="content-box-m-p" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Timothy Wei,</span> Ph.D., Dean</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">David Jones,</span> Ph.D., Associate Dean for Undergraduate Programs (Lincoln Campus)</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">John S. Thorp,</span> M.S., Associate Dean for Undergraduate Programs (Omaha Campus)</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Role and Mission</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The College of Engineering enthusiastically embraces its unique role as the singular intellectual and cultural resource for engineering instruction, research, and outreach within the state. It provides the people of Nebraska with comprehensive engineering academic programs to fulfill their highest aspirations and ambitions.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The missions of the College of Engineering at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln are:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">to deliver relevant and challenging educational programs to attract an outstanding diverse student body, prepare graduates for rewarding careers in their chosen professions, and encourage graduates to extend their level of knowledge through lifelong learning;</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">to conduct leading edge research advances in engineering science, and stimulate the intellectual development and creativity of both students and faculty; and,</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">to extend exemplary engineering service and transfer knowledge that contributes to the well-being and betterment of society.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Administrative Structure</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The College of Engineering is located on three campuses (Lincoln City Campus, Lincoln East Campus, and Omaha), and has two Dean’s Offices, 114 Othmer Hall in Lincoln and 100 Peter Kiewit Institute in Omaha. The College is subdivided into units, each under the leadership of a chairperson, department head, or director.</p>
			<p class="content-box-m-p" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSION</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>College Admission</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>College Entrance Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students must have high school credit for (one unit is equal to one high school year):</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. 4 units of mathematics: 2 of algebra, 1 of geometry, 1 of precalculus and trigonometry.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. 4 units of English.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. 3 units of natural science that must include 1 unit of physics and 1 unit of chemistry (chemistry requirement waived for students in construction management).</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. 2 units of a single foreign language.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>5. 3 units of social studies.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>6. Students having a composite ACT score of 28 or greater (or equivalent SAT score) will be admitted to the College of Engineering even if they lack any one of the following: trigonometry, chemistry, or physics.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>7. Students having an ACT score of 19 or less in English (or equivalent SAT score) must take ENGL 150 or ENGL 151.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>A total of 16 units is required for admission.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students must have an ACT (enhanced) score of 24 or greater (or equivalent SAT). Students who lack entrance requirements may be admitted based on ACT scores, high school rank and credits, or may be admitted to pre-engineering status in the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center. Pre-engineering students are advised within the College of Engineering. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students who lack entrance units may complete precollege training by Independent Study through the UNL Office of On-line and Distance Education, in summer courses, or as a part of their first or second semester course loads while in the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center or other Colleges at UNL.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students should consult their adviser, their department chair, or the Office of the Dean if they have questions on current policies.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Other Admission Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students who transfer to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln from other accredited colleges or universities and wish to be admitted to the College of Engineering (COE) must meet COE freshman entrance requirements and have a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5. Students not meeting either of these requirements must enroll in the Explore Center or another UNL college until they meet COE admission requirements. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The COE accepts courses for transfer for which a C or better grade was received. Although UNL accepts D grades from the University of Nebraska at Kearney and at Omaha, not all majors in the COE accept such low grades. Students must conform to the requirements of their intended major and, in any case, are strongly encouraged to repeat courses with a grade of C- or less.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All transfer students must adopt the curricular requirements of the undergraduate bulletin current at the time of transfer to the COE—not that in use when they entered UNL. Upon admission to UNL, students wishing to pursue degree programs in the COE will be classified and subject to the policies defined in the subsequent section.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADVISING</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Academic Advising</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Advisers assigned to students are located in the departments. Additional advising and pre-engineering advising is available through the Engineering Dean’s Office.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Student Responsibility</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Application for the Diploma</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students must file an application of candidacy for the diploma with Graduation Services.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Failure to meet these stipulations may postpone graduation.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Honors Program</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Honor Societies</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>These recognize students who excel in scholarship and give promise of being leaders in professional areas. They are branches of national societies and are generally open upon invitation to juniors and seniors: Alpha Epsilon (agricultural engineering), Chi Epsilon (civil engineering, both campuses), Eta Kappa Nu (electrical engineering), Pi Tau Sigma (mechanical engineering), Sigma Lambda Chi (construction management), Sigma Xi (scientific, all colleges), Tau Alpha Pi (engineering technology, Omaha campus), and Tau Beta Pi (all engineering).</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Student Recognition</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Graduation with Distinction</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students with outstanding scholastic records may obtain the special honor of graduation <span class="basic-text-ital">With Distinction, With High Distinction</span>, or <span class="basic-text-ital">With Highest Distinction</span> upon the recommendation of the faculty of the College. Check with your major department for specific requirements of each degree.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Student Standing/Classification/Professional Admission</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Explore Center Pre-Engineering Students.</span> These are students who are not admitted to the College of Engineering due to admission deficiencies such as lack of high school mathematics, chemistry or physics course(s), ACT, or other qualifications. These students are administered in the Explore Center, but have academic advising available to them from the COE Dean’s Office. They may enroll in ENGR 10 and 100-level engineering courses provided they meet the prerequisites on a space-available basis. They must earn a 2.5 cumulative GPA in at least 12 credit hours and remove all entrance deficiencies to be admitted to the College of Engineering (COE).</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>After being admitted to the COE, students wishing to pursue degree programs in the College of Engineering will be classified as described below.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Provisional Engineering and Construction Management Students.</span> These are students who have been admitted to the College of Engineering and are in the process of establishing their academic credentials and confirming their choice of major. Transfer students from other colleges or universities, or from the Explore Center, will be classified as provisional for at least one semester (12 credits) while they confirm their career path and establish their academic credentials. Most students are on provisional status for one to four semesters. Provisional students may enroll in upper level engineering courses provided they meet the prerequisites, space is available, and no departmental restrictions exist.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Regular Engineering and Construction Management Students.</span> These students may register in engineering courses where they meet all prerequisites or have permission. A regular student who wishes to transfer from one COE major to another must re-apply for professional admission to regular status in the new major, subject to the admission criteria of the new major.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Restricted Students.</span> These students are those who enrolled in the Explore Center or in other colleges. Restricted students normally may enroll only in ENGR 10 and 100-level engineering courses. However, those with greater than a 2.5 cumulative GPA and no remaining entrance deficiencies may register in upper-level engineering courses, but only on a space-available basis in courses where they meet all prerequisites and have permission of the department. Restricted students may retake an engineering course for C-, D, and F removal no more than once, on a space-available basis and with permission. Restricted students may repeat courses with a previous withdrawal (W) only once. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">College Probation.</span> College probation is automatic for students who fall under the following circumstances</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">The cumulative GPA decreases to less than 2.5</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">A one-semester GPA less than 2.0</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Failing or withdrawing from a given engineering course two or more times</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Repeating three or more engineering courses</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>The first semester of probation is defined as the semester in which failure to meet a cumulative or semester GPA threshold, a course failure or withdrawal, or a code of conduct violation occurs. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Completion of the following semester (12 credits) with a semester GPA above 2.5 is required for a student to be removed from the college probation. Students may be placed on college probation (or dismissed) for violation of the UNL Student Code of Conduct at any time. A student cannot graduate from the College of Engineering while on college probation.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">College Dismissal.</span> A student will be dismissed from the College of Engineering at the end of any semester in which:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">The student has been on college probation for two sequential semesters</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">The student is dismissed by UNL</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Students may also be dismissed for violating the UNL Student Code of Conduct at any time. College dismissal will cause an administrative change in the student’s matriculation to the Explore Center or to a college indicated by the student. Students who have been dismissed from the College of Engineering may be readmitted (one time only) provided they have removed all academic deficiencies that led to dismissal.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>General College Policies</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>These policies are applicable to all students in the College of Engineering:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. Student priority for entrance into classes for which demand exceeds available class space will be based on accumulative GPA. This priority will be applied at the end of early registration (when applicable).</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Students may repeat a maximum of three engineering courses. Students may take any one engineering course a maximum of two times.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. At least 30 of the last 36 credit hours needed for a degree must be registered for and completed at UNL or UNO while identified with the College of Engineering. This means that, practically speaking, the last year of a student’s work must be spent in residence. Credit earned during education abroad may be used toward degree requirements if students participate in prior approved programs and register through UNL (see http://educationabroad.unl.edu).</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. Pass/No Pass courses: Students in the College of Engineering must take ENGR 10, ENGR 20, ENGR 30, and ENGR 400 with the grading option Pass/No Pass. In addition, students may take up to 12 credit hours of courses in the humanities and social sciences on a Pass/No Pass basis. Students in the College of Engineering may not take any other required courses or technical elective courses with the grading option of Pass/No Pass.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>5. Credits for “English for Foreign Students who are Non-native Speakers” at UNL and “English as a Second Language” at UNO are not applicable to degree programs in the College of Engineering.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>6. Six hours of English composition may be substituted for the written communications requirement in all degree programs.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>7. Students who enroll at UNL, UNO, or UNK under the academic year (Fall, Spring, Summer) of this bulletin must fulfill the requirements stated in this UNL bulletin or in any other UNL bulletin which is published while they are enrolled in the College, provided that the bulletin is no more than 10 years old at the time of graduation. A student must, however, meet the graduation requirements from one bulletin only. A student may not choose a portion from one bulletin and the remainder from another bulletin.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Undergraduate Seminars.</span> Freshmen engineering students are required to attend ENGR 10 Freshman Engineering Seminar, a 0 credit course. The Freshman Engineering Seminar provides information on engineering disciplines, resources and tools available to students at UNL, and opportunities to meet engineering faculty members. Sophomore engineering students are required to attend ENGR 20, Sophomore Engineering Seminar, a 0 credit course. The Sophomore Engineering Seminar provides information on career planning, interviewing, resumé preparation and coop/internship opportunities. International transfer engineering students are required to attend ENGR 30 Transfer Student Engineering Seminar, a 0 credit course. The International Transfer Student Engineering Seminar focuses on transfer issues, adapting to UNL and the College of Engineering, and cultural awareness.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Design Requirement.</span> All engineering majors require a minimum of 48 credit hours of engineering topics (engineering topics include subjects in the engineering sciences or engineering design). Engineering design is the process of devising a system, component or process to meet desired needs. Engineering design work may be done by individuals; however, team efforts are encouraged where appropriate. Engineering majors are provided an integrated engineering design experience throughout the curriculum. In addition, all engineering programs include a meaningful major design experience that builds upon the fundamental concepts of mathematics, basic sciences, humanities, social sciences, engineering topics, and communication skills.</p>
			<p class="content-box-m-p" xml:lang='en-us'>BULLETIN TO USE</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students must fulfill the requirements stated in the bulletin for the academic year in which they are first admitted at UNL. In consultation with advisers, a student may choose to follow a subsequent bulletin for any academic year in which they are admitted to and enrolled as a degree-seeking student at UNL in the College of Engineering. Students must complete all degree requirements from a single bulletin year. The bulletin which a student follows for degree requirements may not be more than 10 years old at the time of graduation. </p>
			<p class="content-box-m-p" xml:lang='en-us'>COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Appeals</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In the event of a dispute involving any college policies or grades, the student should appeal to his/her instructor, adviser, and department chair (in that order). If a satisfactory solution is not achieved, the student may appeal his/her case through the College Academic Appeals Committee on his/her campus.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DEGREES &amp; MAJORS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Engineering</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>To meet the need for innovative engineers, the College’s programs offer broad education in the physical sciences, social sciences, mathematics, information sciences, and humanities. This education is complemented by study of engineering methods of modeling, analysis, synthesis, and design in students’ areas of specialization. In addition to preparing students for careers in engineering, the College’s bachelors degree programs provide excellent preparation for graduate study in those fields.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Construction Management</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This profession is allied with architecture, engineering, and business administration. Construction managers coordinate people, machines, and materials to produce (within the constraints of budget and time) buildings, highways, bridges, dams, and other structures essential to modern society. The College’s construction management program provides a solid technical background, develops business knowledge, and considers ethical issues of the profession.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Undergraduate Programs</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Engineering.</span> The College offers bachelor of science degree programs in each of the following engineering fields: agricultural engineering, architectural engineering (Omaha campus only), biological systems engineering, chemical engineering, civil engineering, computer engineering, construction engineering, electrical engineering, electronics engineering (Omaha campus only), and mechanical engineering. Over 85 percent of all the engineering degrees granted in the United States during the last five years were granted in these fields. Students with interests in specialty fields such as aerospace, environmental, or biomedical engineering should seek advice in the Office of the Dean on how to incorporate such emphases into the above degree programs.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Construction Management.</span> The College offers the bachelor of science degree program in construction management, a program accredited by The American Council for Construction Education. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Double Majors.</span> Students can major in two departments in the college by consulting their advisers (one from each department) and completing all the requirements for the departmental majors.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>GRADUATE STUDENT INFORMATION</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Courses supporting several engineering graduate programs are offered both on and off campus. For details, see the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Graduate Studies Bulletin and contact the appropriate department or the Office of the Dean of the College of Engineering.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Seniors in this University who have obtained prior approval of the Dean of Graduate Studies may receive up to 12 hours credit for graduate courses taken in addition to their required undergraduate work. However, these credits must be earned within the calendar year prior to receipt of the bachelors degree. For procedures, inquire at the UNL Graduate Studies Office. Graduate credits earned prior to receipt of the bachelors degree may not always be accepted for transfer to other institutions as graduate work.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MINORS &amp; AREAS OF SPECIALIZATIONS OFFERED</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Approved Minors for College of Engineering Students</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Policies:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. A minor will not reduce or alter the existing course or degree requirements for students electing to pursue a minor.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. A student’s minor program(s) must be organized and approved by an adviser prior to the submission of the senior check to the department chair or head.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. The minor(s) must be approved by the Dean and the cognizant program offering the minor(s).</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. The College of Engineering will follow the “A/B” format of the Arts and Sciences College in which a student pursuing a single minor must complete the “A” requirements. A student pursuing a double (or greater) minor must fulfill either the “A” or “B” requirements for both minors depending on which plan is offered by the cognizant department.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>5. Minors on the Lincoln or Omaha campuses may be added to the following list on approval of the College of Engineering Curriculum Committee and faculty.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Approved Minors</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>If not otherwise listed here, refer to the individual college sections for requirements on the following minors.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Agricultural Economics</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Agriculture and Natural Resources</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Agronomy</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Animal Science</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Art History</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Biochemistry</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Biological Sciences</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Biomedical Engineering Minor</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Business Minor for Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management (Plan A only) </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>This minor is applicable only to students participating in the Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management. All courses must be taken for a letter grade.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Chemistry</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> Chemical Engineering students cannot earn this minor.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Communication Studies</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> Engineering students may not use internship credit to satisfy this minor.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Computational Biology and Bioinformatics</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Computer Science</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Refer to the College of Arts and Sciences for the computer science minor.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Construction Management (Plan A only)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>All courses must be taken for a letter grade.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Economics</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Energy Science</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>For information about the energy science minor, please contact Professor Adam Liska, 402-472-8744, aliska2@unl.edu..</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Engineering Mechanics (Plan A only)</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>English</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Ethnic Studies</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>European Studies</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>General Business (Plan A only) </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>All courses must be taken for a letter grade.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Required Courses 18</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACCT 200 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 200 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>FINA 300 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 300 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MNGT 300 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BLAW 300 3</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Geography</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Geology</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Global Studies</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>History</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>International Agriculture and Natural Resources</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>International Engineering</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Japanese</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Mathematics and Statistics (Plan A only)</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Meteorology-Climatology</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Modern Languages (Only for engineering students)</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Czech</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>French, German and Russian</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Japanese</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Spanish</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Music</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Philosophy </p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Physics</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Political Science</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Psychology</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Sociology</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Water Science</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Women’s and Gender Studies</p>
			<p class="content-box-m-p" xml:lang='en-us'>OTHER</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Professional Licensure</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The College encourages professional licensure. The majority of the College’s engineering seniors take the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination prior to graduation. This examination is administered by the Nebraska Board of Engineers and Architects, a state agency, and the first step in the process of becoming a licensed professional engineer. To become a licensed professional engineer, one must pass the FE exam, have four years of experience, and pass a professional practice examination. Students may take the FE exam in the last semester of their baccalaureate program.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Accreditation</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The agricultural engineering, biological systems engineering, chemical engineering, civil engineering (Lincoln and Omaha campuses), computer engineering (Lincoln and Omaha campus), electrical engineering, electronics engineering, and mechanical engineering programs are accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), http://www.abet.org.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The master of architectural engineering is also accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), http://www.abet.org. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The construction management program is accredited by the American Council for Construction Education.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Practical Training</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>For a student who anticipates pursuing a career as a practicing engineer, it is strongly recommended that the student engage in an internship or equivalent practical training experience.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Scholarships and Financial Aid</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override-2">Each year the College awards scholarships to freshmen and upperclassmen worth more than $750,000. Scholarship awards are made possible through generous gifts of alumni and friends, local and national organizations, and through funding by the Nebraska Legislature. Contact the Office of the Dean or the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid for information regarding these awards and for other financial assistance.</span></p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Application for UNL freshmen scholarships automatically makes you eligible for College of Engineering scholarships as well as other university awards such as the Regents and David scholarships. You must submit the UNL Application form (due January 15, prior to the beginning of the next academic year) to be eligible.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A significant number of entering students have academic records that qualify them for university-wide scholarship awards. Each year about 25 percent of the freshman Regent Scholarship recipients are engineering students.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A large number of students are able to find part-time employment in fields related to their interests.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Student Organizations in the College</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Technical Societies</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The technical student societies help develop a greater personal and professional interest and understanding in engineering, computer science and construction management. Student branches of the major national technical and scientific societies are sponsored by the academic programs and departments.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Lincoln Campus.</span> American Institute of Chemical Engineers; The Society for Engineering in Agricultural, Food, and Biological Systems; American Society of Civil Engineers; American Society of Mechanical Engineers; Associated General Contractors; Association for Computer Machinery; Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers; American Society for Metals; Student Advisory Board; Institute of Transportation Engineers; National Society of Black Engineers; Society of American Military Engineers; Society of Women Engineers; and Society of Automotive Engineers.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Lifelong Learning</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The education of professionals in construction management, engineering, and engineering technology is a continuing process. The groundwork in both technical and nontechnical studies is laid while in college, but education continues after graduation. For a professional, education continues in the technical and in the human and social concerns areas, and may expect to take a leadership role in the community, have a broad awareness of human and social accomplishments, needs, values, and a willingness to take the responsibility for meeting these needs. For these reasons, an integrated program of course work in the humanities and social sciences is a part of the educational requirements.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
