<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Fine &amp; Performing Arts Main Page</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="fine-performing-arts-main-page">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">College of Fine &amp; Performing Arts</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts is comprised of the Department of Art and Art History, the School of Music including the Dance Division, the Johnny Carson School of Theatre and Film, and the Mary Riepma Ross Media Arts Center. In addition, the Great Plains Art Museum, the Lentz Center for Asian Culture, the Lied Center for the Performing Arts, and the Sheldon Museum of Art are affiliated with the College. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College offers a wide range of degrees: the bachelor of arts, the bachelor of fine arts, the bachelor of music, and the bachelor of music education. The programs in the College provide students with both a general liberal education, as well as specialized training in their chosen field. Many of the degrees offered by the College are professionally oriented, and prepare students to enter an occupation directly or to attend graduate or professional schools. Students may major in art, art history, music, music education, theatre arts, or dance.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each of the academic units in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts is accredited by the national accrediting organization in the field: the National Association of Schools of Art and Design, the National Association of Schools of Dance, the National Association of Schools of Music, and the National Association of Schools of Theatre.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts is committed to facilitating the interaction between the many arts entities on campus, and to providing students with a high quality education and many opportunities to participate in cultural activities.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Mission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College nurtures creative, artistic activity and scholarship; educates students to a high level of accomplishment as artists, teachers, and scholars; and enriches the education of all students through the study and practice of the arts. The College provides the citizens of Nebraska with opportunities to enjoy, appreciate, and participate in the arts through outreach programs. Through its creative activity, research, and exhibitions it contributes to the arts nationally and internationally. In fulfillment of its mission, the College:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">provides comprehensive educational programs of study in the arts at the undergraduate and graduate levels.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">fosters creative activity and scholarly research in the arts.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">provides professional preparation for artists, historians, theorists, and arts educators.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">sustains a strong commitment to liberal education for all UNL students through its course offerings and special programs.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">provides opportunities for the performance, collection, preservation, publication, and exhibition of important works.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">develops supportive and knowledgeable audiences and patrons for the arts.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">maintains a strong interdisciplinary and continuing education emphasis by creating comprehensive cultural and educational opportunities.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">supports and contributes to collaborative multicultural and intercultural programs.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">serves the entire state and region as an important artistic and cultural resource through its exhibitions, performances, and educational outreach programs.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">provides leadership for the understanding and development of the arts in the state and nation.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">College Admission </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for admission to the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts are consistent with general University admission requirements. These include: </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">English (4 units)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics (4 units)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Social studies (3 units)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural sciences (3 units) and</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Foreign language (2 units)</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> One unit equals one year of high school credit. </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">One of the following performance standards must also be met: test score.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">New Freshmen:</span><span class="generated-style"> Minimum ACT 22 (composite) or minimum SAT 1020 (combined)</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Transfer and Readmit Students:</span><span class="generated-style"> Completed twelve or more semester credits from a postsecondary institution with a minimum cumulative GPA 2.5 and GPA 2.0 during the last semester of record at the time of application. (Theatre majors with an emphasis in Film and New Media: minimum cumulative GPA 3.0 and GPA 3.0 during the last semester of record at the time of application.)</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">International Students:</span><span class="generated-style"> Minimum TOEFL 213 (computer) or 550 (paper)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Individual departments may have higher standards for acceptance into the different degrees and emphases. Please check with the individual departments for these standards. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Auditions are required for admission to the School of Music for music and dance majors and minors. Auditions are also required for admission to the Johnny Carson School of Theatre and Film for the BA Performance Emphasis. A separate application and portfolio review are required for acceptance into the BFA Film and New Media Emphasis, and the BA Directing and Management Emphasis.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL. These conditions are in this bulletin under “Removal of Deficiencies.” </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students with one deficiency, two deficiencies but not in the same category, or two deficiencies in foreign language who receive a Deferred Admission or Admission by Review, may be considered for admission to the college. Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL. These conditions are explained under Admission to the University, Removal of Deficiencies in this bulletin. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADVISING</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Academic Advising</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Primary academic advising for students in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts is provided by the student’s home department or school. A faculty adviser is assigned by the department or school to help students plan their academic careers and select appropriate courses. Incoming freshmen are counseled during New Student Enrollment by specially trained advisers. Students are responsible for meeting with their academic advisers on a regular basis so that timely and appropriate counsel can be received. Students should contact their department or school office for more information on advising policies and procedures. The Dean’s Office is also available upon referral, but the department or school is the principal source for advising information.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students wishing to include credits transferred from another institution in their program of study must submit a transcript to the UNL Office of Admissions. The Dean’s Office will complete an Evaluation of Transfer Credit form upon receipt of Courses Presented for Transfer from the Office of Admissions. Copies of the Evaluation of Transfer Credit are distributed to the student, the student’s advising file in his or her home department or school, and the Office of the University Registrar. </span><span class="basic-text-bold">Students who have previously had transfer credits evaluated in another UNL college must have the credits reevaluated upon entering the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts</span><span class="generated-style">.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The applicability of transfer credits toward major requirements is determined by the department or school offering the major. Students who wish to apply transfer credits toward major requirements or who wish to request any waiver or substitution of requirements must complete a Request for Waiver or Substitution form. The Request for Waiver or Substitution must first be approved by the appropriate Chief Adviser (listed below) and department chair, before being forwarded to the Dean’s Office for final approval. Requests for waiver or substitution involving courses not offered by the student’s home department or school must have the approval (on the Request for Waiver or Substitution form) of the appropriate UNL department.</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">Art and Art History:</span><span class="generated-style"> Christy Aggens, 120 Richards Hall</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">Dance:</span><span class="generated-style"> Susan Levine, 208 Mabel Lee Hall</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">Music:</span><span class="generated-style"> Peter Lefferts, 368 Westbrook</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">Music Education:</span><span class="generated-style"> Robert Woody, 354 Westbrook</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">Theatre Arts (BFA):</span><span class="generated-style"> Janice Stauffer, 10 Temple</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">Theatre Arts (BA):</span><span class="generated-style"> Harris Smith, 213 Temple</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Academic Load</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Full-time status is attained by registering for twelve or more credits each semester. The Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts allows a maximum of 20 credits per semester.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Exclusions and Restrictions</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">No credit for graduation is allowed for any course deemed to be high school-level (MATH 100A Intermediate Algebra, driver training education, etc.) or transfer credit from an institution with the primary purpose of vocational training (automotive repair, respiratory therapy, etc.).</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The current Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts policy regarding elective credit in ROTC and activity or athletics practice courses in nutrition and health sciences, College of Education and Human Sciences is:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Students majoring in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts may count no more than 10 hours credit in military science, naval science or aerospace studies courses toward their degree. Credit for courses taken beyond this limit will not count toward the credit hour requirements for a degree from the College. This restriction does not apply to courses cross listed between military science, naval science or aerospace studies and departments of the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Students majoring in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts may count no more than 4 hours credit (1 credit hour per semester) in activity or athletic practice courses, and/or basic military training toward their degree. Additional activity, athletic practice and basic military training courses may be taken, but the credit earned will not count toward a degree from the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. A maximum total of 10 hours credit in activity, athletic practice, and basic military training courses and military science, naval science, or aerospace studies courses combined can be counted toward a degree in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts. This restriction does not apply to courses cross-listed between military science, naval science, or aerospace studies and departments of the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Credit Rules</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Credit by Examination</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Through study or experience that parallels a University of Nebraska–Lincoln course, a regularly enrolled University student may feel prepared to pass an examination on the course content of a specific course for credit in that course. To apply for credit, a student should:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Consult with the Department Chair.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Obtain a Credit by Examination Form at the Records Office, 107 Canfield Administration Building, 402-472-3649. Current enrollment in the University must also be verified.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Secure the approval signature from the Department Chair, instructor, and the Dean of the student’s college.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Secure the bursar’s receipt for payment of the appropriate fee per course for Credit by Examination. Currently, the fee is one-half the resident tuition rate.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Present the completed form to the instructor designated by the Department Chair. The instructor will give the examination and report the results on the Credit by Examination Form to the Records Office, 107 Canfield Administration Building, 402-472-3636.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Examination for credit through UNL departments may be taken only by currently enrolled students. A student is not permitted to receive Credit by Examination in a course which is a prerequisite for a course already taken unless the course and its prerequisites cover essentially different subject matter.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts also gives credit for the subject and general examinations of the College Level Examination Program and the Advanced Placement Program administered by the College Entrance Examination Board. See the Dean’s Office, 102 Woods Art Building, for current policy regarding CLEP and AP examinations.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Dual Degrees/Inter College Majors</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Dual Degrees</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who wish to pursue two degrees at UNL must declare the additional degree on a Dual Matriculation form approved by both colleges involved. Generally, 30 credit hours will be added to the minimum number of credits needed to complete the secondary degree. Students in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts are allowed to declare two degrees within the college, provided that the degrees are different. Two degrees (diplomas) are awarded upon completion.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Inter-College Majors</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts pursuing a bachelor of arts degree may also complete a second bachelor of arts major in the College of Arts and Sciences. Likewise, a student in the College of Arts and Sciences pursuing a bachelor of arts degree may also complete a second bachelor of arts major in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts. The student must complete all degree requirements in the degree college in addition to the course work for the second major in the visiting college. One degree (diploma) will be awarded upon completion.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Honors Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts encourages qualified students to participate in the University Honors Program. As far as their plans and programs permit, these students are enrolled in the special sections for superior students. In addition, departments in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts offer special honors sections of regular freshman courses to meet the needs of students with superior preparation in those subjects.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Recognition</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Dean’s List</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College recognizes students for academic achievement during the fall and spring semesters by placement on the College Dean’s List. To qualify for the Dean’s List in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts, students must complete 12 graded hours by the time of the first grade reports and attain a minimum semester grade point average of 3.7. The following do not qualify as part of the 12 credit hours: Pass/No Pass credit, transfer hours, removals of incompletes, and grade changes submitted after the census grade reports. Music education students are not eligible for the Dean’s List during the semester in which they are enrolled in MUED 497 (Student Teaching).</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Degrees with Distinction</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In recognition of outstanding academic excellence, the College grants the bachelors degree with the designation of With Distinction, With High Distinction, and With Highest Distinction to qualified students. The College Academic Distinction and Awards Committee determines the level of distinction. To be recommended for distinction, candidates must fulfill the specific criteria for Highest Distinction, With High Distinction, or Distinction, as described below, in addition to all of the general criteria and procedures applicable to all distinction classifications.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Highest Distinction.</span><span class="generated-style"> Candidates for the bachelors degree may be awarded Highest Distinction on the basis of the following criteria: outstanding scholastic standing (a cumulative GPA above 3.9 as of the semester preceding graduation) and a thesis project of high quality.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">High Distinction.</span><span class="generated-style"> Candidates for the bachelors degree may be awarded High Distinction by fulfilling one of two sets of criteria: 1) by achieving outstanding scholastic standing (a cumulative GPA above 3.9 as of the semester preceding graduation), or 2) by achieving excellent scholastic standing (a cumulative GPA above 3.8 as of the semester preceding graduation) and a thesis project of high quality.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Distinction.</span><span class="generated-style"> Candidates for the bachelors degree may be awarded Distinction by achieving one of two sets of criteria: 1) by excellent scholastic standing (a cumulative GPA above 3.8 as of the semester preceding graduation), or 2) by achieving high scholastic standing (a cumulative GPA of 3.5 as of the semester preceding graduation) and a thesis project of high quality.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The following criteria apply to all categories: an award of distinction on the basis of GPA alone (for Distinction or High Distinction) should not be considered automatic. In reviewing candidates, a consideration of the GPA is followed by an evaluation of the transcript, which includes: the general quality and breadth of the program, the quality of any transfer credit hours, the number of 300/400-level courses, the number of courses taken Pass/No Pass, and the number of courses retaken to remove D grades. Students must remove any incompletes by the end of the 8th week of classes in the term preceding graduation in order to be considered for recognition. In addition, ordinarily only students who have taken their last 48 hours of graded course work while registered in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts are considered. Consequently, it is possible for a student to have a GPA above the cut-off point and still not receive a recommendation for distinction. Also, graduation with any level of distinction is not automatic with the submission of a thesis project (a requirement for a degree with Highest Distinction, and an option for degrees with High Distinction or with Distinction). It does, however, make a student eligible to be considered for graduation with such honors.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Thesis Project.</span><span class="generated-style"> The thesis project should be substantially more extensive than a term paper. It must be the result of independent, sustained thought, and intellectual curiosity, and it must be completed outside of the structured assignments normally required for a course (excluding 499H courses). A survey of the literature about a particular topic is not sufficient. The project must include a significant written component. All of the following elements are required: 1) an abstract consisting of no more than one page; 2) a clear formulation of the problem, question, or project; 3) a scholarly study which illuminates it, and 4) a substantive conclusion supported by evidence. Students must write in a manner and style that can be understood by a non-specialist in the field. A bibliography and reference to existing literature in the field should be included where appropriate. The phrase “Thesis Project” acknowledges the possibility of having a scholarly honors endeavor which might not conform to the narrow definition of a “thesis”. The following are examples of previous Thesis Projects: 1) the arrangement of a particular symphony and a detailed description of the process of composing arrangements with literary references, 2) the creation of a portfolio of photographic works accompanied by a lengthy historical and literary background, 3) a complete set of costume designs with detailed information about the design, research and garment building process and photographs of the realized costumes. The project must have a significant written component, but it need not be in the format of a formal thesis.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Procedure:</span><span class="generated-style"> Students who elect to work on a thesis project must make arrangements before their senior year by consulting with a faculty member who will supervise the project. The student must register for an independent study course in their major area of study (499H) before proceeding with the preparation of the independent work. The Thesis Project Registration must be completed, with signatures, and filed in the Dean’s Office (102 Woods Art Building) by Tuesday of the second week of classes of the semester of graduation. The Thesis Project supervisor is expected to offer guidance to the student throughout the duration of the project. Two faculty members, the supervisor and the second reader, must complete a Thesis Project Evaluation Form. It is the responsibility of the faculty members to clearly address in their evaluations the extent to which the thesis project meets the three required elements listed above. Thesis projects and faculty evaluations must be submitted to the departmental unit head by the end of the 4th week of the semester of graduation. The unit heads signal departmental approval by forwarding the thesis project and faculty evaluations to the associate dean. Thesis projects not meeting the approval of the department will not be sent forward to the Dean’s Office for further consideration. The College Academic Distinction and Awards Committee conducts the final evaluation of the thesis project. Specific deadlines for each term are indicated on the Registration and Evaluation forms. Materials submitted after the stated deadlines will not be considered by the Academic Distinction and Awards Committee.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In general, every thesis project is reviewed by the Committee. However, if no member of the Committee feels qualified in the subject area of the thesis project submitted, the Committee solicits the help of another faculty member with an appropriate background. This outside reader then submits to the Committee a formal written evaluation. Even so, members of the Committee must depend heavily on the faculty evaluations.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the UNL Honors Program may submit an Honors Thesis, providing all of the above requirements and deadlines are met.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students graduating in August must meet deadlines set for May graduates.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Dean’s Award for Academic Excellence</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This award is presented annually in the spring to the graduating student from the three graduations (May, August, and December) of the previous calendar year who has achieved the highest level of scholastic performance while in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts. The award is based on the final cumulative grade point average at graduation. In the event of a tie, other factors will be taken into consideration. It is expected that the last 48 hours of the student’s work will have been completed in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">International Study/Study Abroad</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Credit earned during study abroad may be used toward degree requirements if students participate in prior approved programs and register through UNL. Credit awarded from an institution other than UNL will be subject to transfer credit and residency rules.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Senior Check/Degree Audit</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">During the second semester of the junior year or after completing 85 hours, students should apply for a degree audit in Graduation Services, 109 Canfield Administration Building.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Standing/Classification</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Sophomore Standing.</span><span class="generated-style"> For admission to sophomore standing a student must have completed all of the College entrance requirements; earned a minimum of 27 semester hours of credit; and attained a total grade point average of at least 2.0.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Junior Standing.</span><span class="generated-style"> A student has junior standing after meeting the requirements for sophomore standing and completing 53 semester hours of credit.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Senior Standing.</span><span class="generated-style"> A student has senior standing after meeting the requirements for junior standing and completing 89 semester hours of credit.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Substitutions and Waivers</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Special requests concerning degree programs, including inquiries about exceptions to degree requirements, waivers, and substitutions should be made to the Dean’s Office, 102 Woods Art Building.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">ACE REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All students must fulfill the Achievement Centered Education (ACE) requirements. Information about the ACE program may be viewed at ace.unl.edu.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">BULLETIN TO USE</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who first enroll at Nebraska under the 2012-2013 Undergraduate Bulletin must fulfill the requirements stated in this bulletin or in any other bulletin which is published while they are enrolled in the College provided the bulletin they follow is no more than ten years old at the time of graduation. A student must, however, meet the requirements from one bulletin only rather than choosing a portion from one bulletin and the remainder from another.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Exception:</span><span class="generated-style"> Students pursuing any degree in the School of Music who fail to take at least one course that will fulfill their degree requirements during a 12-month period must apply for re-admission. They are then required to move to the new bulletin and fulfill the requirements in effect at the time of readmission. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">College General Education Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Introduction to Library Research (1 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All students will complete LIBR 110, a one-credit hour class designed to teach basic information literacy skills to first year and transfer students. The course familiarizes students with an array of online information resources and introduces them to specific UNL Libraries services and resources. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who have 27 or more transfer credits applied toward degree requirements are exempt from the LIBR 110 requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Foreign Languages/Language Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The languages requirement serves to help students gain a working familiarity with a language and a culture other than their own.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All students pursuing bachelor of arts or bachelor of music degrees are required to complete the intermediate level in one foreign language. Some or all of these courses may be completed while in high school. Courses approved to satisfy the languages requirement are offered by the Department of Classics and Religious Studies and the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures in the College of Arts and Sciences, and the Department of Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology in the College of Education and Human Sciences. A student is required to successfully complete 202 to fulfill the languages requirement. (Exceptions: In Japanese, a student must complete JAPN 201 and one additional course from JAPN 202, JAPN 203, and JAPN 204; In Greek, the student must complete two 300-level courses; in Latin, a student must take LATN 301 and LATN 302.) Instruction is currently available in Arabic, Chinese, Czech, French, German, Greek, Hebrew, Japanese, Latin, Omaha Native Language, Russian, Spanish, and American Sign Language.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A student who has completed three years of one foreign language study in high school may fulfill the languages requirement by taking a fourth-semester-level course.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A student who has completed the fourth-year level of one foreign language in high school is exempt from the languages requirement.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Any student who achieves a specified scaled score in the College Level Examination Program (CLEP) subject exam in French, German, and Spanish, levels 1 and 2, will be exempt from the languages requirement and will also receive credit for the fourth semester course in the language.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A transfer student with 11 or 12 semester hours of accepted credit has two choices: 1) to complete 6 hours in the same language at the 200 level; or 2) with permission of the chair of the department to enroll in a fourth semester course.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A student from a foreign country who has demonstrated acceptable proficiency in his or her native language (other than English) is exempted from the languages requirement without credit toward the degree. American students who present acceptable evidence that their second language is English are exempted from the languages requirement without credit toward the degree. All such students should see the Dean’s Office, 102 Woods Art Building, for this exemption.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Approved Courses</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 204A Native Language: Omaha III (ETHN 204A) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 205A Native Language: Omaha IV (ETHN 205A) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ARAB 201 Second-Year Arabic I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ARAB 202 Second-Year Arabic II (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CHIN 201 Second-Year Chinese I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CHIN 202 Second-Year Chinese II (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CZEC 201 Second-Year Czech I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CZEC 202 Second-Year Czech II (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FREN 201 Second-Year French I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FREN 202 Second-Year French II (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FREN 203 Conversation &amp; Composition I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FREN 210 Accelerated Second-Year French (6 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">GERM 201 Second-Year German I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">GERM 202 Second-Year German II (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">GERM 203 Composition &amp; Conversation I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">GERM 210 Accelerated Second-Year German (6 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">GREK 301 Greek Prose I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">GREK 302 Greek Poetry I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">GREK 373 New Testament Greek (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">HEBR 301 Biblical Hebrew Prose (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">HEBR 302 Biblical Hebrew Poetry (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">JAPN 201 Second-Year Japanese I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">JAPN 202 Intermediate Grammar &amp; Reading I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">JAPN 203 Second-Year Japanese II (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">JAPN 204 Intermediate Grammar &amp; Reading II (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">LATN 301 Latin Prose I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">LATN 302 Latin Poetry I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RUSS 201 Second-Year Russian I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RUSS 202 Second-Year Russian II (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 201 Second Year American Sign Language I (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 202 Second Year American Sign Language II (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">SPAN 201 Second-Year Spanish I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">SPAN 202 Second-Year Spanish II (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">SPAN 203 Intensive Conversation (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">SPAN 210 Accelerated Second-Year Spanish (6 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Hours Required for Graduation </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A minimum of 120 semester hours of credit is required for graduation from the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts. Students in the College are required to maintain a minimum current and cumulative GPA of 2.0. Individual departments may require a higher current and cumulative GPA.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">C- and D Grades </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College will accept no more than 15 semester hours of grades lower than C from schools outside of the University of Nebraska system. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Grades lower than C earned at UNL or transferred from other schools cannot be applied toward requirements in a major, but may be applied toward total hours.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">University regulations for the Pass/No Pass privilege state: The Pass/No Pass option is designed to be used by a student seeking to expand his/her intellectual horizons by taking courses in areas where he/she may have minimum preparation without adversely affecting his/her grade point average.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Neither the P nor the N grade contribute to a student’s GPA</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. P is interpreted to mean C or above. Some professional education courses require a C+ or above.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. A change to or from Pass/No Pass may be made until mid-term (1/2 of the course.) This date coincides with the final date to drop a course without the instructor’s approval.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. The Pass/No Pass or grade registration cannot conflict with the professor’s, department’s, college, or University policy governing grading option.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Prior to the mid-term deadline, changing to or from the Pass/No Pass requires using the MyRED system to change the grading option or filing a Drop/Add form with the Office of the University Registrar, 107 Canfield Administration Building. After the mid-term deadline, a student registered for Pass/No Pass cannot change to a grade registration unless the Pass/No Pass registration is in conflict with a professor’s, department’s, college, or University policy governing Pass/No Pass.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">6. The Pass/No Pass grading option cannot be used for the removal of C- or D or F grades.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Pass/no pass privileges in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts are extended to students according to the following additional regulations:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Pass/no pass hours can count toward fulfillment of ACE requirements up to the 24-hour maximum.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Freshmen and sophomores may enroll for no more than 6 hours of Pass/No Pass work per semester.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Students may not elect to take courses on a Pass/No Pass basis to fulfill degree requirements in the major. Departments may allow up to 6 hours of Pass/No Pass to be taken in the minor offered by the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Departments may specify that certain courses can be taken only on a Pass/No Pass basis.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. The College will permit no more than a total of 24 semester hours of Pass/No Pass grades to be applied toward degree requirements. This total includes all “pass” grades earned at UNL and other schools.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Individual departments vary in their policies regarding Pass/No Pass hours as applied to the major and minor. Consult the individual departmental listings for these policies. Students who wish to apply Pass/No Pass hours to their major and minor(s) must obtain approval on a form that is available in the Dean’s Office, 102 Woods Art Building.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are expected to maintain a minimum 2.0 grade point average each semester. Some programs within the College may have higher GPA requirements to keep in good academic standing.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Credit Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Ordinarily, hours earned at an accredited college are accepted by the University. The College, however, will evaluate all hours submitted on an application for transfer and reserves the right to accept or reject any of them. The maximum number of hours the University will accept on transfer from a two-year college is 60.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Normally credit is not given for pre-university work. In some instances, however, it may be possible to receive credit through satisfactory examination.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All transfer students must complete the Residency Requirement (see “Residency Requirement”), and at least 9 hours in the major field must be completed at the University regardless of the number of hours transferred.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts will accept no more than 15 semester hours of D grades from schools other than UNO or UNK. All grades may be transferred from UNO or UNK. However, transfer courses within a student’s major or minor will be evaluated by that unit and held to the same minimum grade standards as courses taken at UNL.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Department of Art and Art History Transfer Credit Policy</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">BFA –</span><span class="generated-style"> At least 36 credit hours in studio art and 9 credit hours in art history of the required BFA courses must be taken at UNL. Courses taken at other academic institutions may be substituted for the remaining required courses subject to evaluation by the department.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">BA in Studio Art –</span><span class="generated-style"> At least 12 credit hours in studio art and 9 credit hours in art history of the required BA courses must be taken at UNL. Courses taken at other academic institutions may be substituted for the remaining required courses subject to evaluation by the department.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">BA in Art History – </span><span class="generated-style">At least 18 credit hours of the required art history courses must be taken at UNL. Courses taken at other academic institutions may be substituted for the remaining required courses subject to evaluation by the department.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">School of Music Transfer Credit Policy</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The following will be used by advisers as guidelines for the evaluation of transfer credits which are </span><span class="basic-text-bold">less than five years old</span><span class="generated-style">:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">If a transfer student has successfully completed (grade C or above) approved transfer credits which are </span><span class="basic-text-bold">equivalent</span><span class="generated-style"> to music major/minor requirements in terms of number of credit hours and scope of content, that area will be considered completed at the discretion of the chief degree program adviser.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">For approved transfer credits which are </span><span class="basic-text-bold">lacking equivalency</span><span class="generated-style"> in either number of credit hours, scope of content, or grade received to music major/minor requirements in applied music, music theory, sight singing/aural skills, and keyboard skills, the number of transfer credits accepted and placement will be determined by audition/proficiency tests administered by designated area faculty.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">For approved transfer credits which are </span><span class="basic-text-bold">lacking equivalency</span><span class="generated-style"> in other music areas (history and ensembles), the number of transfer credits accepted will be determined by the chief degree program adviser.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All music course work which is </span><span class="basic-text-bold">more than five years old</span><span class="generated-style"> must be validated by an audition or competency examination given by designated area faculty.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Johnny Carson School of Theatre and Film Transfer Credit Policy</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">There are no additional restrictions regarding transfer credit.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Credit from Foreign Institutions</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Credit for courses taken at foreign universities and colleges will be transferred only after validation by the appropriate department. This evaluation may include examination of the student over subject matter studied at the foreign institution.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">International Baccalaureate Credit</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who have studied art, music, or theatre within the International Baccalaureate Program will be given credit for courses at UNL according to the guidelines established by each academic unit. Contact the department office for specific course information.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Level Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Upper-Level Requirement: Thirty of the 125 semester hours of credit must be in courses numbered above 299.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Residency</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must meet either of the following residency qualifications:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">At least 30 of the last 36 hours of credit must be registered for and completed while enrolled at UNL.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A total of 90 credits must be registered for and completed while enrolled at UNL. </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Thirty semester hours earned through On-line and Distance Education courses at UNL may be applied toward a degree from the College.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Credit earned during study abroad may be used toward degree requirements if students participate in prior approved programs and register through UNL. Credit awarded from an institution other than UNL will be subject to transfer credit and residency rules.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DEGREES &amp; MAJORS</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Areas offering Bachelor of Arts degree:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Art</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Art History</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Dance</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Interdisciplinary Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Music</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Theatre–Directing and Management</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Theatre–Performance</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Areas offering Bachelor of Fine Arts degree:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Art</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Theatre–Design/Technical Production</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Theatre–Film and New Media</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Area offering Bachelor of Music degree:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Music</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Area offering Bachelor of Music Education degree:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Music Education</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MINORS &amp; AREAS OF SPECIALIZATIONS OFFERED</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">Art</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">Art History</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">Dance</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">Music</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">Music Technology</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">Theatre</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">College Scholarships and Student Support</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Donors have provided a limited number of scholarships that are reserved for students in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts. Students interested in applying for one of these awards may obtain information from departmental chairpersons or from the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Undergraduate and graduate majors in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts may qualify for financial support through three programs funded by the Hixson-Lied Endowment, including Student International Study Support, Student Domestic Study Support, Student Scholarly and Creative Activity, and the Undergraduate Creative Research Grant. Applications and deadline information for all grants are available on the College website.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Grading Appeals</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student who feels that he/she has been unfairly graded may take the following sequential steps:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Talk with the instructor concerned. Most problems are resolved at this point.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Talk to the instructor’s department chairperson.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Take the case to the Grading Appeal Committee of the department concerned. The Committee should be contacted through the department chairperson.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Take the case to the College Grading Appeals Committee by contacting the Dean’s Office, 102 Woods Art Building.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Application for a Degree</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each student who expects to receive a diploma must file an application of candidacy for the diploma with Graduation Services in the Office of the University Registrar, 109 Canfield Administration Building. Announcements about deadline dates are posted on bulletin boards and printed in The Daily Nebraskan.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are responsible for informing Graduation Services of their graduation plans, including their addresses; the manner in which they are completing their requirements such as by On-line and Distance Education, by clearance of incompletes, by enrollment at another institution, by taking special examinations, etc.; and of any later revision of such plans. Failure to follow this procedure may cause postponement of graduation until a later semester.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
