<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Advertising &amp; Public Relations 16-17.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="advertising-public-relations-16-17">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Advertising &amp; Public Relations</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Journalism &amp; Mass Communications</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Advertising &amp; Public Relations</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Journalism</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Andrea Spader</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Brown, Hachtmann, Mitchell, Shipley (emeritus)</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor:</span> Struthers</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Jones, Kiambi, Wagler, Wang, Yan</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors of Practice:</span> Goff, James (emeritus), Larsen</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors of Practice:</span> Sallee, Tidball</p>
<p class="basic-text">The advertising and public relations major prepares students for careers in a wide variety of communication-related areas. Recent graduates have taken jobs in more than 20 states and several other countries in diverse careers such as retail and corporate advertising and marketing, media sales, brand management, media planning, account management, research, public relations, media relations, special event planning, mobile and digital communications, creative concepting, sports media relations, digital insights and analytics, copywriting and layout and design.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The advertising and public relations faculty believes that a successful career must be built upon a solid foundation, an education that combines theory and practice. To achieve that end, the major offers courses in copywriting, layout, media planning, graphics, campaign development, research, management, coding, and strategic communications. The curriculum is designed to emphasize strategy, planning and implementation in creative problem-solving.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Much emphasis is placed on individual relationships between faculty and students, an interaction vital to a student’s creative development. An advisor also helps each student tailor an academic plan to meet his or her interests and needs.</p>
<p class="basic-text">In advertising and public relations classes, students often work with actual clients who present real-life problems. This experience gives students a professional perspective on problem solving in many sectors including nonprofit, retail, small business and community organizations as well as large corporations. Students are encouraged to augment their academic experience with internships.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The faculty, with many professional contacts both locally and nationwide, actively help students find jobs within the state and throughout the country. Students interested in majoring in advertising and public relations should contact the college office in 147 Andersen Hall, 402-472-3041.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">The major is 40 hours in advertising and public relations.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The courses required for a major in advertising and public relations are as follows:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ADPR 151, ADPR 221, ADPR 283, JOMC 100, JOMC 101, JOMC 130, JOMC 131, JOMC 132, JOMC 133, JOMC 134, JOMC 486, and JOMC 487.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Additionally, all ADPR majors take one of the following three capstone courses: ADPR 429, ADPR 439, or ADPR 489, as well as 12 hours from approved electives for the major.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The 12 elective hours may comprise one of five optional areas of emphasis, including account services, creative/interactive, digital communication, public relations or sports communication. Students also may select the elective courses from multiple areas of emphasis to provide a broad background. Among the 12 elective hours, students may select courses from ADPR, BRDC, JOMC or JOUR. At least 9 of the 12 elective hours must be chosen from ADPR elective options numbered 300 or higher. However, for the public relations emphasis JOUR 201, JOUR 202 and ADPR 207 can apply.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">The <span class="basic-text-bold">account services emphasis</span> includes the following: ADPR 329, ADPR 339, ADPR 360, ADPR 434, ADPR 481, and ADPR 484.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">The <span class="basic-text-bold">creative/interactive emphasis</span> includes the following: ADPR 323, ADPR 329, ADPR 333, ADPR 339, ADPR 433, ADPR 447, ADPR 458, ADPR 459, ADPR 483, and ADPR 484.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">The <span class="basic-text-bold">digital communication emphasis</span> includes the following: ADPR 329, ADPR 339, ADPR 360, ADPR 434, ADPR 458, ADPR 459, ADPR 466; JOUR 304 and JOUR 407.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">The <span class="basic-text-bold">public relations emphasis</span> includes the following: ADPR 207, ADPR 329, ADPR 339, ADPR 417, ADPR 437, ADPR 450, ADPR 451, ADPR 457, ADPR 466; JOUR 201 and JOUR 202.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">The <span class="basic-text-bold">sports communication emphasis</span> includes the following: JOMC 150 and at least 3 more hours from Section A (ADPR 464, BRDC 375, JOUR 326 or a sports internship in ADPR, BRDC or JOUR). The remaining 6 hours may be selected from either Section A or Section B (ADPR 151, ADPR 207, ADPR 283, ADPR 450, ADPR 451, JOUR 201 or JOUR 202). <span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span> The 12 hours for the emphasis may not include any course already required for the major.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">If approved by the associate dean, all areas of emphasis may further include the following: ADPR X91, BRDC X91, JOUR X91, JOMC X91, ADPR 495, ADPR 496 and ADPR 499H.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may complete two majors in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications by completing all requirements for each major. However, the second major in the college will not take the place of a concentration or any of the 72 hours required outside the college.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Graduating seniors also must complete JOMC 98 Senior Assessment. Typically, JOMC 98 (0 credit) is taken in the last semester. However, seniors who have completed all courses for the major may take it in the term preceding graduation.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Internship Policy</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may be able to earn credit for internships under certain circumstances. Please go to the college website and find the Internship Policy under the Student Services tab.</p>
<p class="title-1">Credit in Special Experiences</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may earn up to 6 credit hours toward the degree in some student experiences: Jacht, National Student Advertising Competition, photojournalism reports, depth reports and others. Students may repeat the same course again for additional credit hours, but those credits will not count toward the degree inside or outside the major. Talk with an academic advisor for further information or specific questions.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>