<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Art 17-18.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="art-17-18">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Art</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Fine &amp; Performing Arts</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Art</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Fine Arts</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Christy Aggens</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Robert Derr,</span> 120 Richards Hall</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Derr, Fritz, Kunc, Pinnell, Souto</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Bohls, Cal, Dominguez, Holz, Ingraham, Williams</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Asher, Pickering, Sontheimer, Sutherlen</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors of Practice:</span> Cole, Syron</p>
<p class="basic-text">The School of Art, Art History and Design offers students the opportunity to investigate visual art through a variety of experiences. The art major enables students to attain proficiency in the practice of art and knowledge of the history of art as part of a general college education. Some may want to devote themselves to a period of intensive studio art education, while others may be interested in pursuing art for the purpose of building cultural awareness and critical thinking skills. Two undergraduate degrees are available to art majors. The student's career goals will determine the appropriate option.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The bachelor of arts degree (BA) is a liberal arts degree with about forty-five percent of the course work in the School of Art, Art History and Design, providing the flexibility to study various academic disciplines outside of art. The bachelor of fine arts degree (BFA) is a professional degree, the usual preparation for professional careers or graduate study in studio art, and includes about seventy percent of the course work from the School of Art, Art History and Design. Increased studio art requirements in the BFA allow for specialization within a chosen area or a customized studio experience.</p>
<p class="title-2">Bachelor of Arts Degree at a Glance</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Requirements 30</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Languages: Classical &amp; Modern 0-6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from the list of “Approved Courses” found under “College Degree Requirements.”</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Art Major Requirements 54</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Minors 18-24</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Electives 6-18</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours Required for Graduation 120</p>
<p class="title-2">Bachelor of Fine Arts Degree at a Glance</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Requirements 30</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Art Major Requirements 84</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Electives 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours Required for Graduation 120</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR DEPARTMENT ADMISSION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Any student who meets college admission requirements may declare a major in art.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Bachelor of Arts Requirements</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">BA Requirements 54</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Required Foundation 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ARTP 150 Studio Foundation 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ARTP 151 Color and Composition 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ARTP 152 Three-Dimensional Design 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">DRAW 201 Drawing 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">DRAW 202 Life Drawing 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ARTP 400 Capstone Art Experience 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Studio Electives <span class="requirement-ital"></span> 18</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Studio Thesis Hours  3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Art History 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AHIS 101 Cave Paintings to Cathedrals 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AHIS 102 Renaissance to Modern Art 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">Art History electives <span class="requirement-ital">(including a minimum of 3 credits in courses numbered above 299)</span> 9</p>

<p class="title-2">Studio Area Option</p>
<p class="basic-text">Studio elective hours may be used to pursue an optional 12-credit focus in one studio area, which includes a minimum of 3 credits of Studio Thesis (499). Available areas are ceramics, drawing, painting, photography, printmaking, and sculpture.</p>
<p class="title-2">Minor Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">BA students are required to complete a minimum of one minor. A second major can be used to satisfy the minor requirement.</p>
<p class="title-1">Bachelor of Fine Arts Requirements</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">BFA Requirements 84</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Required Foundation 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ARTP 150 Studio Foundation 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ARTP 151 Color and Composition 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ARTP 152 Three-Dimensional Design 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">DRAW 201 Drawing 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">DRAW 202 Life Drawing 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Required Distribution 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CERM 231 Beginning Ceramics: Wheelthrowing or CERM 232 Beginning Ceramics: Handbuilding 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">PANT 251 Beginning Painting I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHOT 261 Beginning Photography-Digital 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">PRNT 241 Beginning Printmaking I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">SCLP 211 Beginning Sculpture I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ARTP 400 Capstone Art Experience 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Studio Area Option 18</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Studio Electives 18</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Art History 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AHIS 101 Cave Paintings to Cathedrals 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AHIS 102 Renaissance to Modern Art 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">Art History electives <span class="requirement-ital">(including a minimum of 3 credits in courses numbered above 299)</span> 9</p>
<p class="title-2">Studio Area Option Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">BFA students must designate an option area and complete 18 credits in the chosen area, including a minimum of 3 credits of Studio Thesis (499). Available areas include ceramics, drawing, painting, photography, printmaking, sculpture, and interdisciplinary studies. Students with an interdisciplinary emphasis will work with their advisor to identify the 18 credits that will be used for option requirements.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">BA Degree</p>
<p class="title-2">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-3">C- and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Minimum grade for all major requirements is C.</p>
<p class="title-3">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">All courses taken for major requirements must be for letter grade, unless the course is only offered Pass/No Pass.</p>
<p class="title-2">Course Level Requirement</p>
<ul>
<li>A minimum of 3 credits of studio art and 3 credits of art history must be taken in courses numbered above 299.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-2">Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules, Transfer Credit Rules</p>
<ul>
<li>No more than 6 hours of independent study courses  may count toward the major in the BA degree. This includes all courses numbered 390, 392, 395, 396, 490, 492, 495, 496, and 499H offered by the School of Art, Art History and Design.</li>
<li>At least 12 credit hours in studio art and 9 credit hours in art history of the required BA courses must be taken at UNL. Courses taken at other academic institutions may be substituted for the remaining required courses subject to evaluation by the department.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-2">Time and Credit Guidelines</p>
<p class="title-1 basic-text">The School of Art, Art History and Design adheres to the following time and credit guidelines established by the National Association of Schools of Art and Design (NASAD):</p>
<ul>
<li>In studio courses, one hour of credit represents three hours of work each week of the 16-week semester. Two of the hours are spent in class with the instructor, and one hour of additional work is expected outside of regularly scheduled class time.</li>
<li>In lecture/discussion courses, one hour of credit represents one hour each week in class, and two hours each week of work outside of class for the duration of the 16-week semester.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-1">BFA Degree</p>
<p class="title-2">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-3">C- and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Minimum grade for all major requirements is C.</p>
<p class="title-3">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">All courses taken for major requirements must be for letter grade, unless the course is only offered Pass/No Pass.</p>
<p class="title-2">Course Level Requirement</p>
<ul>
<li>A minimum of 3 credits of art history must be taken in courses numbered above 299.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-2">Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules, Transfer Credit Rules</p>
<ul>
<li>No more than 9 hours of independent study courses may count toward the major in the BA degree. This includes all courses numbered 390, 392, 395, 396, 490, 492, 495, 496, and 499H offered by the School of Art, Art History and Design.</li>
<li>At least 36 credit hours in studio art and 9 credit hours in art history of the required BFA courses must be taken at UNL. Courses taken at other academic institutions may be substituted for the remaining required courses subject to evaluation by the department.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-2">Time and Credit Guidelines</p>
<p class="basic-text">The School of Art, Art History and Design adheres to the following time and credit guidelines established by the National Association of Schools of Art and Design (NASAD):</p>
<ul>
<li>In studio courses, 1 hour of credit represents three hours of work each week of the 16-week semester. Two of the hours are spent in class with the instructor, and one hour of additional work is expected outside of regularly scheduled class time.</li>
<li>In lecture/discussion courses, 1 hour of credit represents one hour each week in class, and two hours each week of work outside of class for the duration of the 16-week semester.</li>
</ul>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="title-3">Plan A Minor in Art – 18 credits</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Art History: AHIS 101 or AHIS 102 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Studio Electives 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from the following areas: </span>ceramics, drawing, painting, photography, printmaking, sculpture, special topics, Art at Cedar Point</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Additional Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3 requirement-ital">Any art history or studio art course</p>
<ul>
<li>A grade of C or better is required in all courses. Classes taken Pass/No Pass will not be applicable toward the minor.</li>
<li>A maximum of 6 transfer credits will apply toward minor requirements.</li>
</ul>
<p>Note: Graphic Design majors must complete an additional 12 credits of studio electives beyond what is required for the major if this minor is chosen.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>