<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>CEHS International Minor 17-18.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="cehs-international-minor-17-18">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">CEHS International Minor</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> CEHS International Minor</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 18</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> AnnMarie Gottner </p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences offers a minor in International Studies, open to all undergraduate students. </p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="title-1">Minor–Plan A Requirements – 18 hours</p>
<p class="title-1">Learning Outcomes</p>
<p>In fulfilling the requirements of the CEHS International Studies Minor, students will achieve the following three learning outcomes.</p>
<p class="title-1">Outcome 1: Human Ecosystem - Students will be able to articulate the culturally specific ways in which children/youth, families, schools, and communities are viewed and services to them are provided. </p>
<p class="title-1">Outcome 2: Global Self-Awareness - Students will be able to address significant issues in the world and the relationship of these issues to individual decision-making.</p>
<p class="title-1">Outcome 3: International Dimensions - Students will understand and be able to articulate how the discipline of their major (or one of their majors) is viewed and practiced in another culture.</p>
<p class="title-1">9 of 18 credit hours must be from courses with the CEHS prefix or a prefix representing a CEHS department. </p>
<p class="title-1">Students must take at least 6 credts from the list of courses approved to meet Outcomes 1 and Outcomes 2, students must take at least 1 credit to meet Outcome 3. <br /></p>
<p class="title-1">Additional courses: In addition to the 7 minimum credits required to meet Outcomes 1, 2, and 3; to complete the overall 18 credits required; students may select from:  </p>
<ul>
<li>Any course approved to meet the CEHS International Studies Minor.</li>
<li>Any course approved to meet the Global Studies major in the College of Arts and Sciences. </li>
</ul>
<p class="title-1"><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span></p>
<div style="width: 1px; height: 1px; overflow: hidden; position: fixed; top: 10px; left: 10px;">
<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="font-size: 12.0pt;">Additional courses:<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;">  </span>In addition to the 7 minimum credits required to meet Outcomes 1, 2, and 3; to complete the overall 18-credits required; students may select from:</span></p>
</div>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>