<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Coaching Minor 17-18.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="coaching-minor-17-18">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Coaching Minor</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Coaching Minor</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 15</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.5</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> </p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="title-1 basic-text">This minor is only available to those students who have a non-teaching major in the College of Education and Human Sciences. Teacher education candidates can complete the coaching endorsement program which is a supplemental endorsement for students in teacher education.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Contact: Dr. Tom Wandzilak</span>, twandzilak1@unl.edu, 402-472-8626</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="title-1">Course Requirements</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHC 235 (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHC 279 (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHC 494 (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select three from the following:</span> ATHC 311, ATHC 312, ATHC 317, ATHC 318 (6 hrs)</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>
<p class="title-1">Criminal History Background Check Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS) has the responsibility to ensure that all students who interact with children of all ages, served by schools or other public or private agencies meet a high level of personal, professional and ethical behavior. These CEHS students must complete an official criminal history background check through the CEHS vendor, prior to participating in a field experience or internship. Students are responsible for the cost of any required criminal history background check and will be required to complete one upon admission to a program and/or an initial field placement. Eighteen months after the initial background check has been completed, undergraduate students are required to complete the CEHS self-disclosure report, a self-report collected by the college. Graduate students will be required to complete the self-disclosure report at the same time as the initial background check is conducted and again eighteen months later. If more than three years have elapsed after the initial background check is conduced, CEHS students must complete an additional background check prior to participating in a field experience or internship. Students are responsible for the cost of additional background checks.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students with felony or any misdemeanor charges or convictions, as reported on the background check, may be contacted by the College. Depending upon the frequency and severity of the charges and/or convictions, students may be required to meet with the Director of Professional Experiences. If any new charges or convictions are acquired after a background check has been completed, students are required to report those to the Director of Professional Experiences within two weeks after the event occurs. Failure to disclose any new information concerning one's criminal history can lead to removal from the program. Continued participation in school or community field experiences in the College will be based on the type and number of convictions, the recency of those occurrences, and whether they violate the requirements of the Nebraska Department of Education and/or the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services. If the convictions are deemed to be serious in nature, a student may be prohibited from participating in a field experience in a pre-school, school or public agency setting. The student may then be referred to the department chair for further disciplinary action.</p>
<p class="title-1">Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students planning to enter professions in education or the human sciences must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and others. Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences requires that its students show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act in a responsible manner. Students must consider how the College, the profession, an employer, or the community perceive or evaluate the impact of any questionable behavior. Students' success in their profession is impaired by taking risks that are unacceptable for children, demonstrating a lack of professionalism and good judgment, and showing disregard for one's personal reputation or the integrity of the College.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to evaluate student fitness for the profession and deny entry to or dismiss a student from any program if, through the reasonable exercise of the judgment of its Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences, the College determines that the student's behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or represents risk to young persons. Such behaviors shall be adequate foundation to deny the student's participation in any practicum or field experience to protect the interests and safety of children. The consequences of unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will depend upon the unique circumstances involved.</p>
<p class="title-1">Appeal to the Dean</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences with respect to a criminal behavior or unprofessional behavior, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing, within ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student's written appeal shall clearly explain the basis for the appeal. The Dean will review the student's basis for appeal and is authorized but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student's written appeal. The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possible, but in no case longer than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences a written decision, which shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review with the University of Nebraska.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>