<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Communication Studies 17-18.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="communication-studies-17-18">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Communication Studies</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Communication Studies</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Kathy Castle</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Dawn O. Braithwaite,</span> 433 Oldfather</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director of Speech &amp; Debate:</span> Aaron Duncan</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors: </span>Braithwaite, Kellas, Krone, R. Lee, Seiler</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Soliz</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Palmer-Wackerly</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors of Practice:</span> Castle, Duncan</p>
<p class="basic-text">Communication studies is a social science and humanistic field of study, research, and application. The mission of the Department of Communication Studies is to examine human symbolic activity as it shapes and is shaped by relationships, institutions, and societies. This work concerns how, why, and with what effects people communicate through verbal and nonverbal messages. Through research, teaching, and service, the Department devotes particular attention to understanding the ways in which communication erodes and sustains collaboration within and among local, national, and global communities.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Communication competencies are among those most highly desired in professional, personal, organizational, and civic arenas. Additionally, a major in Communication Studies goes beyond learning communication skills by fostering a world view that demonstrates a commitment to communication, collaboration, and community. Communication Studies majors go on to careers in sales, marketing, human resources, customer service, nonprofit management, event planning, fund raising, public relations, management, and government, to name just a few. Majors also go on to graduate school and law school.</p>
<p class="title-2">University Speech &amp; Debate</p>
<p class="basic-text">The University of Nebraska–Lincoln offers a nationally recognized speech and debate program of participation in campus and intercollegiate debate, public speaking, and interpretation events. The program gives students the opportunity to compete at the local, state, regional, and national level. No previous debate or speech experience is required. All students who are in good standing may take part in intercollegiate debate and forensics.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> Graduate programs leading to the master of arts and doctor of philosophy degrees are offered in the department. A detailed description of these programs appears in the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">All prospective majors must consult and register with a departmental advisor. Majors are expected to meet regularly with their advisor. An approved program of study must be filed at the time students declare the major or within the first 12 hours of course work in the major. In order to graduate with a communication studies major, students must have an approved program of study. The minimum number of hours for a major in communication studies is 36. The 36-hour requirement must include the following:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Complete both COMM 101 and either COMM 201 or 202. These courses should be completed within the first twelve hours in communication studies of a student’s program.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Complete one of the following: COMM 109, COMM 205, COMM 209, COMM 212, COMM 220, COMM 286, or COMM 295.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Complete two of the following: COMM 250, COMM 271 or COMM 283.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Complete a minimum of 21 hours of communication studies courses at or above the 300 level.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">5. Of the 21 hours, at least 9 must be at the 400 level including COMM495, with no more than 3 of those hours coming from either 390 or 397.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">6. No more than 3 hours of internship, independent study or assistantship may count toward the 36-hour requirement in the major.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required to complete an assessment of the major. This assessment will be implemented in the communication studies capstone course: COMM 495.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Results of participation in this assessment activity will in no way affect a student’s GPA, but could prevent or delay graduation if the assessment is not completed as required.</p>
<p class="title-1">Minor Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">A communication studies major must have either an approved Plan A minor or two approved Plan B minors. A departmental advisor must approve the minor.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">COMM 101 must be completed before a student can enroll in any 400-level course.</p>
<p class="basic-text">COMM 101, COMM 201 or COMM 202 must be taken before COMM 495.</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">A grade of C or above is required for all courses in the major.</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">No course taken Pass/No Pass will be counted toward the major or the minor, with the exception of 3 hours of either COMM 297 or COMM 397.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="title-2">Plan A</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">This minor consists of a minimum of 18 hours in communication studies courses with at least 9 hours at or above the 300 level. The 18-hour requirement must include the following:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. COMM 101</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Complete one of the following: COMM 109, COMM 205, COMM 209, COMM 212, COMM 220, COMM 286, or COMM 295.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. A minimum of 9 hours must be taken in communication studies classes at or above the 300 level excluding COMM 297 and COMM 395.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Of the 9 hours, at least 3 must be at the 400 level. COMM 101 must be completed before a student can enroll in any 400-level course. COMM 395 cannot be used to meet this requirement.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">5. The department encourages qualified students to enroll in internship, independent study, and education abroad experiences in order to supplement classroom experiences. However, none of these is a substitute for classroom experiences. No more than 3 hours of internship, independent study, or education abroad credits may count toward the 18-credit-hour requirement in the minor.</p>
<p class="title-2">Plan B</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">12 hours of communication studies courses with at least 9 hours at or above the 200 level, excluding COMM 297 or COMM 395. A maximum of 3 hours of internship or independent study may apply to the 12-hour requirement.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>