<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Computer Engineering (Omaha) 17-18.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="computer-engineering-omaha-17-18">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Computer Engineering (Omaha)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Computer Engineering (Omaha)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 124</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.5 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Roger Sash</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Jerry Hudgins</span>, PKI 206C</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Alexander, Asgarpoor, Balkir, Boye, Chen, Choobineh, Hoffman, Hudgins, Ianno, Lu, Nguyen, Otu, Perez, Qian, Sayood, Schubert, Sharif, Sutter, Woollam, Wysocki</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice:</span> Bauer</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Ci, Franke-Schubert, Han, Hui, Jang, Peng, Qiao, Sash, Snyder, Vakilzadian, Varner, Yang</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors of Practice:</span> Detloff, Gilmore</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors: </span>Argyropoulos, Harms, Qu</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> McCreight</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Phone:</span> 402-554-2288</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">FAX:</span> 402-554-2289</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website:</span> engineering.unl.edu/ece</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Email: </span>rsash1@unl.edu</p>
<p class="basic-text">The computer engineering program is administered by the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and the bachelor of science degree program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org.</p>
<p class="title-1">Mission</p>
<p class="basic-text">The mission of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) programs on the Omaha Campus at the University of Nebraska is to develop and maintain programs of excellence in teaching and research which meet the educational needs of its constituents, which will support the state of Nebraska in its development as a leading center for high-technology computer/electronics/telecommunications industry and which will support national needs for well-educated ECE professionals.</p>
<p class="title-1">Program Educational Objectives</p>


<p>The Program Educational Objectives (PEOs) for the computer engineering program are a statement of what its graduates are doing or are capable of doing three to five years after graduation. The students in the computer engineering program receive a strong foundation in engineering science and design that not only enables them to pursue productive careers in the computer engineering field but also in other areas such as business, management, and medicine. Typical industries in which computer engineering graduates are employed include microprocessor/embedded system design, digital design, hardware/software integration, and computer architecture and parallel processing. </p>

<ul></ul>

<p>The Program Educational Objectives for the computer engineering program are that graduates will be: </p>
<p>1. Employed in business, academia, or government.</p>
<p>2. Successful engineers who have established productive careers in their field and have contributed to improve and provide innovative and effective solutions in computer engineering or related fields.</p>
<p>3. Demonstrating technical and decision-making processes and the human interactions necessary to produce viable, responsible, and sustainable technological solutions.</p>
<p>4. Engaging in lifelong learning, which may include postgraduate education, to successfully adapt to technological, industry specific, and cultural changes and to foster adept functioning in society.</p>
<p>5. Performing engineering practice in a context that reflects awareness of the ethics of their profession and of the impacts of their work on the profession and society at large.</p>

<p class="header-paragraph">These Program Educational Objectives were developed with input from the program’s educational objectives constituency consisting of employers (including CEEN Industry Advisory Board), graduates of the program, and faculty of the department.</p>
<p class="title-1">Student Outcomes</p>
<p class="basic-text">Student outcomes are those abilities that a graduate of the computer engineering program will have attained so that he/she can meet the educational objectives established for the program.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph-title">At the time of graduation, students in the ECE computer engineering program will have:</p>

<p>a. An ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering.</p>
<p>b. An ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data.</p>
<p>c. An ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability.</p>
<p>d. An ability to function on multidisciplinary teams.</p>
<p>e. An ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems.</p>
<p>f. An understanding of professional and ethical responsibility.</p>
<p>g. An ability to communicate effectively.</p>
<p>h. The broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context.</p>
<p>i. A recognition of the need for, and an ability to engage in life-long learning.</p>
<p>j. A knowledge of contemporary issues.</p>
<p>k. An ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering practice.</p>
<ul>
<li></li>
</ul>
<ul></ul>

<p class="header-paragraph basic-text">The individual holding this degree will have advanced knowledge in his or her field of engineering interest and in addition will have a university educational background involving mathematics, the physical sciences, and the humanities and social sciences. Completion of this curriculum will enable the graduate to enter employment in positions involving computer hardware design and applications, computer software design and development, microcomputer based applications, and computer networking. The program also leads to the preparation for graduate work in computer engineering, computer science or electrical engineering.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR DEPARTMENT ADMISSION</p>
<p class="title-1">General Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Advisement</p>
<p class="basic-text">Upon entry into the program, each student will be assigned a faculty academic advisor. It is required that the student meet with the advisor prior to each class registration period and that all courses to be applied toward the degree be selected with the advice and approval of the advisor. Students are expected to have their academic records reviewed and obtain approval from the department prior to application to the University registrar for award of the degree in order to insure that all curricular requirements will be satisfied by the time of intended graduation.</p>
<p class="title-2">Curriculum</p>
<p class="basic-text">Because of the rapid developments in the field of computer engineering, the curricular requirements are continually reviewed and upgraded to reflect technological advances. Curricular sequence and course descriptions contained herein are intended to serve as general guidelines. Contact the department for information on any changes to the requirements that are currently in effect but not listed in this catalog. Currently enrolled students are expected to modify their programs to take advantage of such revisions. Students who do not maintain continuous progress toward the degree through enrollment in applicable course work will be considered as new students upon reentering the computer or electronics engineering curricular sequence and will be subject to the requirements of the curriculum current at the time of their reentry. Certain courses may not be valid as prerequisites or as credit toward the degree after two academic years; the student’s academic advisor should be consulted regarding applicability.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The department maintains a high standard of excellence in meeting its objective of providing the student with extensive experience in the fields of computer engineering and electronics engineering. The development of both hardware and software and the knowledge of the interrelationship of these areas is enhanced through the extensive use of laboratory equipment. The applicable University bulletins and College academic policies must be followed to ensure that the student satisfies the campus general education requirements.</p>
<p class="title-2">Capstone</p>
<p class="basic-text">The capstone requirement provides a unique and challenging opportunity for the undergraduate student to demonstrate his/her ability to apply the knowledge gained in the course work sequence to the planning, design, execution, testing and reporting of a significant project in the applications of engineering principles. The initiative and responsibility expected of the student executing the senior thesis parallel the expectations of the employer of the program graduate.</p>
<p class="title-2">Electives</p>
<p class="basic-text">Computer engineering, electrical engineering and electronic engineering courses which are described in the catalog but are not shown as requirements in the semester sequences are offered as the need arises to provide co-interest areas wherein the students may broaden their background in the applications of computer engineering or electronics engineering. In addition, appropriate specified technical electives will be selected to augment the student’s particular area of interest. The applicability of transfer course work with engineering content toward credit in the curriculum is determined on a case-by-case basis by the department.</p>
<p class="title-2">Special Interest Areas</p>
<p class="basic-text">Opportunities are provided for the development of areas of special interest through enrollment in the Individual Study in Computer and Electronics Engineering courses which are offered at the freshman through senior level for the student who may wish to develop a topic under the guidance of a department faculty member. Enrollment is by permission after approval of a written proposal. Special Topics in Computer and Electronics Engineering classes also are offered by the department as the need arises to cover topics needing emphasis as a result of the rapidly developing fields of computer engineering and electronics engineering. Academic advisors should be consulted regarding the particular topics to be covered and the necessary prerequisites for each offering of this course.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who expect to continue their education at the graduate level after the award of the baccalaureate degree should consult their advisor regarding course selections that would enhance that objective.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are encouraged to develop their professional and leadership potential through participation in student chapters of related professional organizations and in University extracurricular activities. Participation in the University Honors Program is encouraged for those who qualify.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Requirements for the Degree</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">First Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECEN 103 Computer &amp; Electronics Engineering Fundamentals 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CSCE 155A Computer Science I <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CSCE 155E Computer Science I: Systems Engineering Focus 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 106 Calculus I 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective SLO 5 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Second Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECEN 106 Microprocessor Applications 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECEN 194 Special Topics in Computer &amp; Electronics Engineering I 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECEN 225 Computer &amp; Electronics Engineering Seminar 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CSCE 156 Computer Science II 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 107 Calculus II* 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 17</p>
<p class="asterisk">*Calculus II is a 5-credit course on the Omaha Campus. Students taking Calculus II on the Lincoln Campus will need to obtain an additional 1 credit hour of math or science.</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Third Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECEN 213 Electrical Circuits I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECEN 218 Electrical Circuits Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 222 General Physics Lab II 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">COMM 109 Fundamentals of Human Communication 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fourth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECEN 222 Electronic Circuits I 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECEN 313 Switching Circuits Theory 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">JGEN 300 Technical Communication II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 208 Calculus III 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECEN 2170 Electrical Circuits III 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fifth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECEN 310 Digital Design &amp; Interfacing 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECEN 332 Assembly Language Programming 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CSCE 310 Data Structures &amp; Algorithms 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 314 Linear Algebra 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 380 Statistics &amp; Applications (STAT 380) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 14</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Sixth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECEN 325 Communications Systems 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECEN 433 Microprocessor System Design 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR Electives 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective SLO 6 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 17</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Seventh Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECEN 435 Embedded Microcontroller Design 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECEN 496 Capstone I 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 469 Tech, Science &amp; Civ (UNO) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR Electives 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective SLO 7 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Eighth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECEN 499 Capstone II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR Electives 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Electives SLO 8 &amp; 9 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> <span class="requirement-ital">Three hours of the engineering electives can be chosen from a list of approved non-ECEN courses.</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Credit Hours Required 124</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">Student must have a grade of C or better in ECEN 2130 and ECEN 3130 before taking any course which has these coures as prerequisites.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>