<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Construction Engineering 16-17.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="construction-engineering-16-17">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Construction Engineering</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Construction Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Construction Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 125</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.4 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Garrett Gassman (Omaha), Kevin Sueper (Lincoln)</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="title-1">Durham School of Architectural Engineering and Construction</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">School Director:</span> Jay Puckett</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Coordinator: </span>Kevin Grosskopf</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Foster, Goedert, Morcous</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Bernstein, Bonsell, Jensen, Norton, Schwer, Stentz</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Ahn, Esmaeili, Woldesenbet</p>
<p class="basic-text">Construction engineering (CONE) is a program of the Charles W. Durham School of Architectural Engineering and Construction. The construction engineering major integrates engineering, construction and management courses. This program is designed for persons fulfilling the construction industry’s need for licensed professional engineers. It resembles the construction management program but provides a greater emphasis on engineering, scientific, and technical courses to meet requirements for licensure as a professional engineer. The courses focus on the application of engineering principles to solve real-world construction problems. They include instruction in civil engineering, structural principles, material testing and evaluation, project management, computer-assisted design, 3D animation, sustainability and graphic communication.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Durham School Construction Engineering program is accredited by EAC-ABET, Inc.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The educational objectives of the construction engineering program are to produce graduates who will (in three to five years after graduation):</p>
<ul>
<li>Possess knowledge acquisition skills enabling them to remain current throughout their careers;</li>
<li>Apply engineering principles of analysis and design to the systems being constructed;</li>
<li>Employ technical skills with innovation and dedication to pursue improved functionality, increased efficiency and decreased costs;</li>
<li>Use communication skills to effectively share their ideas with many forms of media;</li>
<li>Adapt to the constantly changing, interdisciplinary design and construction fields by applying teamwork and team building skills; and</li>
<li>Apply appropriate construction practices including business organization, estimating, scheduling, project delivery and ethics.</li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">Under the stimulus of increasing demand for global services, many Nebraska companies have expanded their reach well beyond U.S. borders. This demand gives the construction engineering graduate an unprecedented number of opportunities for employment (locally, nationally, and internationally), and for pursuing an advanced degree at UNL or elsewhere.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Construction engineers participate in the preparation of engineering and architectural documents, including specifications, which they translate into finished projects, such as buildings for housing, commerce and industry, highways, railroads, waterways, airports, power plants, energy distribution systems, military bases and space center complexes. These projects involve thousands of details shared by a team of owners, architects, engineers, general constructors, specialty constructors, manufacturers, material suppliers, equipment distributors, regulatory bodies and agencies, labor resources and others. The constructor assumes responsibility for delivery of the completed project at a specified time and cost and also accepts associated legal, financial and management obligations. Because of the broad scope of the construction engineer’s project responsibility, he/she must assure the project’s constructability as well as its capability to be operated and maintained.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Construction engineering students are required to enroll in a set of courses specifically designed for a general construction education. Each student selects, with the guidance of an advisor, a set of approved electives. The program outlined below leads to the bachelor of science degree in construction engineering.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Requirements for the Degree (Lincoln campus)</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">First Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CONE 103 Introduction to Construction Engineering 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CSCE 155N Computer Science I: Engineering &amp; Science Focus 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 10 Freshman Engineering Seminar 0</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 106 Calculus I 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Second Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 107 Calculus II 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 221 General Physics I Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, or 9.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Third Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 221 Geometric Control Systems (CONE 221) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 225 Introduction to Building Information Modeling 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 208 Calculus III 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 223 Engineering Statics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 17</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fourth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CONE 211 Construction Business Methods 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 206 Engineering Economics (CONE 206) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 325 Mechanics of Elastic Bodies 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 373 Engineering Dynamics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fifth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 341 Introduction to Structural Engineering 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CONE 319 Construction Methods &amp; Equipment 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CONE 378 Construction Estimating (CNST 378) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 380 Statistics &amp; Applications (STAT 380) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MECH 321 Engineering Statistics &amp; Data Analysis 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 310 Fluid Mechanics (CIVE 310) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Sixth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 334 Introduction to Geotechnical Engineering 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 378 Materials of Construction 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ELEC 211 Elements of Electrical Engineering I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, or 9.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Seventh Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 440 Reinforced Concrete Design I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CONE 414 Accident Prevention in Construction <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CNST 444 Construction Site Safety Management 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CONE 476 Project Budgets &amp; Controls (CNST 476) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CONE 485 Construction Planning, Scheduling &amp; Controls (CNST 485) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Technical Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Eighth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 441 Steel Design I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CONE 489 Construction Engineering Capstone Course 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BLAW 371 Legal Environment 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Technical Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, or 9.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Credit Hours Required for Graduation 125</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">All course work must be of C grade level or higher to be credited toward graduation requirements or to be valid as a prerequisite for another course.</p>
<p class="title-1">Electives</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are required to enroll in a predetermined set of courses specifically designed for general construction education. Each student selects, with the approval of his/her advisor, a set of approved electives.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Technical electives are selected from the following list. One (3 credit hour) of the required two electives needs to be considered a design technical elective.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Design Technical Electives</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CONE 416 Wood/Contemporary Materials Design</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CONE 417 Formwork Systems</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CONE 481 Highway &amp; Bridge Construction</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CONE 483 Support of Excavation</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 443 Structural Analysis</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 444 Structural Design &amp; Planning</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 446 Steel Design II</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 447 Reinforced Concrete Design II</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Technical Electives</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">All previously listed Design Technical Electives</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 379 Construction Estimating II</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 434 The Design/Build Project Delivery System</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CONE 450 Sustainable Construction</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CONE 466 Heavy/Civil Estimating</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CONE 498 Special Topics in Construction</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 420 Heat Transfer</p>
<p class="title-1">ACE Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">The CONE program follows the UNL ACE general education requirements. Because of the specific needs of the program, several of these courses are specified in the curriculum. Please contact Melissa Hoffman at melissa.hoffman@unl.edu or 402-554-4482, if you are interested in more information about this program.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>