<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Geography 17-18.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="geography-17-18">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Geography</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Geography</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Rebecca Buller</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Lead: Paul Hanson</span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors: </span> Archer, Wishart</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors: </span>Hanson, Wardlow, Zygielbaum</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice: </span>Buller</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Emeritus Professors: </span> Amedeo, Lawson, Rundquist, Stoddard</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturer:</span> Nashleanas</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Undergraduate Academic Advisor:</span> Rebecca Buller, rbuller2@unl.edu</p>
<p class="basic-text">Geography is especially appealing to those having interests in travel, learning about other peoples and cultures, and understanding the environment from a systems perspective. The program of geography offers a variety of courses leading to the bachelor of arts (B.A.) and bachelor of science (B.S.) degrees in geography. The objectives of these programs are: 1) to support the goals of a broad liberal education by increasing awareness of the spatial, regional, and environmental aspects of the earth and its peoples; and 2) to provide a specialized knowledge of environmental processes, human-environment relations, American and foreign areas and cultures, and geographic techniques such as cartography, remote sensing and geographic information analysis.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may specialize in one of many areas, including climate and weather, cultural/human geography, geographic information systems, historical geography of the Great Plains, natural resources, physical geography, pre-community and regional planning, regional studies, or remote sensing. </p>
<p class="basic-text">An education in geography prepares students for careers in government agencies as well as those involved with foreign service, land management, tourism, health care delivery systems, environmental assessment, transportation development, land use planning, air traffic control, GIS and cartographic analysis, and in a wide variety of businesses, particularly those concerned with environmental mapping, geographic information systems, and planning. A geography major also prepares students for graduate-level degrees in geography, law (especially environmental law), international business, urban and regional planning, and teaching at all levels.</p>
<p class="title-2">Major in Geography</p>
<p class="basic-text">The major in geography consists of seven mandatory courses with a common core in human-environment relations. Students should begin their programs with introductory physical and human courses, then move to courses dealing with environmental issues, world regions, and courses in techniques of acquiring, mapping and displaying geographic data. An undergraduate seminar which covers historical and philosophical aspects of geography as well as practical matters such as jobs and graduate schools, completes the set of mandatory courses. Beyond this core of required courses are 8 hours of electives.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> The advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy in geography are offered. For details on these programs, see the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-1"><em>The major entails a total of 30 hours, of which 14 hours must be numbered 300 or above.</em></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Core Requirements 16</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">GEOG 140 Introductory Human Geography or GEOG 120 Introductory Economic Geography 3 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">GEOG 155 Elements of Physical Geography 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">GEOG 181 Quality of the Environment 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">GEOG 272 Geography of World Regions 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">GEOG 402 Undergraduate Seminar (Senior Seminar) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-2">Geography Techniques Courses<span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span> 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital"> (6 hours from the following list,with at least 3 hours numbered 400 or above)</p>



<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ANTH 387 GIS in Archaeology</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CRPL 432 Advanced Spatial Analysis with GIS</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CRPL 495 Selected Topics in Community &amp; Regional Planning: Planning with GIS</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GEOG 217 Mapping Science in the 21<sup>st</sup> Century</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GEOG 312 Introduction to Geospatial Information Sciences</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GEOG 317 Cartography I: Introduction to Cartography</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GEOG 412 Introduction to Geographic Information Systems (GIS)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GEOG 414 Quantitative Methods in Geography</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GEOG 415 Introduction to Computer Mapping</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GEOG 417 Cartography II: Electronic Atlas Design &amp; Production</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GEOG 418 Introduction to Remote Sensing</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GEOG 419 Applications of Remote Sensing in Agriculture &amp; Natural Resources</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GEOG 420 Digital Image Analysis of Remote Sensing Data</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GEOG 421 Field Techniques in Remote Sensing</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GEOG 422 Advanced Techniques in Geographic Information Systems </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GEOG 425 Scientific Visualization in Cartography</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GEOG 427 Introduction to the Global Positioning System (GPS)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GEOG 432 GIS Programming for Advanced Spatial Analysis &amp; Modeling</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GEOG 444 Geo-demographics &amp; GIS</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GEOG 461 Geospatial Approaches in Digital Humanities &amp; Social Sciences</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GEOG 483 Cognitive Processes in Map Comprehension &amp; Use</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">GEOG 498 Advanced Special Problems: Atlas Composition &amp; Design</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-1">Geography Electives 8</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">8 hours of electives typically remain after the required and technique courses are completed to meet the 30 hour major requirement.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Students may choose to specialize in one of many areas, including climate and weather, cultural/human geography, geographic information systems, historical geography of the Great Plains, natural resources, physical geography, pre-community and regional planning, regional studies, or remote sensing.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Additional courses not formally cross-listed as GEOG might apply towards GEOG credit by approval of advisor.</p>


<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required to complete written and oral examinations in the Senior Seminar, GEOG 402, over knowledge in all components of the major, as well as over more detailed knowledge in the student’s area of focus. Students will be informed of the scheduling and format of assessment exams in the Senior Seminar. Students will also be given exit interviews prior to graduation to gather their views on the effectiveness of the major. Results of participation in this assessment activity will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Course Level Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">Of the total 30 hours, 14 hours must be numbered 300 or above. Of the 6 hours of techniques courses, 3 hours must be numbered 400 or above.</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">No grade lower than a C may count toward the major. No more than 6 hours may be taken Pass/No Pass.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<ul>
<li>18 hours of GEOG courses, including 10 hours in courses numbered 300 or above.</li>
</ul>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>