<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Graphic Design 17-18.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="graphic-design-17-18">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Graphic Design</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Fine &amp; Performing Arts</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Graphic Design</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Christy Aggens</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Robert Derr, 120 Richards Hall<br />Professors: Derr, Fritz, Kunc, Pinnell, Souto<br />Associate Professors: Bohls, Cal, Dominguez, Holz, Ingraham, Williams<br />Assistant Professors: Asher, Pickering, Sontheimer, Sutherlen<br />Assistant Professors of Practice: Syron</span><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span></p>
<p class="basic-text">Bachelor of Arts Degree at a Glance<br />ACE Requirements 30<br />Languages: Classical &amp; Modern 0-6<br />Select from the list of “Approved Courses” found under “College Degree Requirements.”<br />Graphic Design Major Requirements 57<br />Minors 18-24<br />Electives 3-15<br />Total Hours Required for Graduation 120<br />Bachelor of Fine Arts Degree at a Glance<br />ACE Requirements 30<br />Art Major Requirements 84<br />Electives 6<br />Total Hours Required for Graduation 120</p>

<p class="basic-text">The graphic design major prepares students to integrate creativity with visual communication to create a wide variety of print and digital products.  The School of Art, Art History and Design offers two undergraduate degrees for this major.  Both include a solid base of knowledge in the principles and history of art and design.  The bachelor of arts (BA) degree, with nearly fifty percent of its courses in the major, requires students to complement this foundation with another area of study.  The bachelor of fine arts (BFA) degree expands on the basic course work by providing additional experience in graphic design and related studio art areas.  This intensive degree holds seventy percent of its courses in the major and is intended for those who want to work in a design career or pursue graduate study in graphic design.</p>
<div style="width: 1px; height: 1px; overflow: hidden; position: fixed; top: 10px; left: 10px;">
<p class="Normal1"><span style="font-family: Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font: major-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: major-latin; color: windowtext;">The graphic design major prepares students to integrate creativity with visual communication to create a wide variety of print and digital products. The School of Art, Art History &amp; Design offers two undergraduate degrees for this major. <span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>Both include a solid base of knowledge in the principles and history of art and design. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font: major-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: major-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: Font; color: windowtext;">The bachelor of arts (BA) degree, with nearly fifty percent of its courses in the major, requires students to complement this foundation with another area of study.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span></span><span style="font-family: Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font: major-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: major-latin; color: windowtext;">The bachelor of fine arts (BFA) degree expands on the basic course work by providing additional experience in graphic design and related studio art areas. This intensive degree holds seventy percent of its courses in the major and is intended for those who want to work in a design career or pursue graduate study in graphic design. </span></p>
</div>
<div style="width: 1px; height: 1px; overflow: hidden; position: fixed; top: 10px; left: 10px;">
<p class="Normal1"><span style="font-family: Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font: major-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: major-latin; color: windowtext;">The graphic design major prepares students to integrate creativity with visual communication to create a wide variety of print and digital products. The School of Art, Art History &amp; Design offers two undergraduate degrees for this major. <span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>Both include a solid base of knowledge in the principles and history of art and design. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font: major-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: major-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: Font; color: windowtext;">The bachelor of arts (BA) degree, with nearly fifty percent of its courses in the major, requires students to complement this foundation with another area of study.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;">  </span></span><span style="font-family: Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font: major-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: major-latin; color: windowtext;">The bachelor of fine arts (BFA) degree expands on the basic course work by providing additional experience in graphic design and related studio art areas. This intensive degree holds seventy percent of its courses in the major and is intended for those who want to work in a design career or pursue graduate study in graphic design. </span></p>
</div>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR DEPARTMENT ADMISSION</p>
<p><br />Any student who meets college admission requirements may declare a major in graphic design.<br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Bachelor of Arts Requirements<br />BA Requirements 57<br />Required Foundation 12<br />ARTP 151 Color and Composition 3<br />ARTP 152 Three-Dimensional Design 3<br />DRAW 201 Drawing 3<br />DRAW 202 Life Drawing 3</p>
<p class="title-1"><br />GRPH 428 Design Studio II: Design Capstone 3<br /></p>
<p>Graphic Design Courses 18<br /></p>
<p>GRPH 221 Graphic Design I 3<br />GRPH 222 Creative and Critical Thinking 3<br />GRPH 223 Typography I 3<br />GRPH 224 Design History and Practice 3<br />GRPH 321 Graphic Design II 3<br />GRPH 325 Interaction Design I 3<br />GRPH 421 Graphic Design III 3<br />GRPH 426 Design Studio I 3<br />Graphic Design Electives 6</p>
<p><br />Art History 12<br />AHIS 101 Cave Paintings to Cathedrals 3<br />AHIS 102 Renaissance to Modern Art 3<br />Art History electives (including a minimum of 3 credits in courses numbered above 299) 6<br /><br />Minor Requirements<br />BA students are required to complete a minimum of one minor. A second major can be used to satisfy the minor requirement.<br /></p>
<p class="title-1">Bachelor of Fine Arts Requirements<br />BFA Requirements 84<br />Required Foundation 12<br />ARTP 151 Color and Composition 3<br />ARTP 152 Three-Dimensional Design 3<br />DRAW 201 Drawing 3<br />DRAW 202 Life Drawing 3<br /><br />GRPH 428 Design Studio II: Design Capstone 3<br /></p>
<p class="title-1">Graphic Design Courses 18<br /></p>
<p class="title-1">GRPH 221 Graphic Design I 3<br />GRPH 222 Creative and Critical Thinking 3<br />GRPH 223 Typography I 3<br />GRPH 224 Design History and Practice 3<br />GRPH 321 Graphic Design II 3<br />GRPH 323 Typography II 3<br />GRPH 325 Interaction Design I 3<br />GRPH 421 Graphic Design III 3<br />GRPH 425 Interaction Design II: Interactive Storytelling 3<br />GRPH 426 Design Studio I 3<br /></p>
<p class="title-1">Graphic Design Electives 15</p>
<p class="title-1">Studio Art Electives 12</p>
<p class="title-1">Select from the following areas: ceramics, drawing, painting, photography, printmaking, sculpture, special topics, Gallery Management, Art at Cedar Point(excludes foundation courses)</p>
<p class="title-1">Art History 12<br />AHIS 101 Cave Paintings to Cathedrals 3<br />AHIS 102 Renaissance to Modern Art 3<br />Art History electives (including a minimum of 3 credits in courses numbered above 299) 6<br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><br /><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">BA Degree<br />Grade Rules<br />C- and D Grades<br />Minimum grade for all major requirements is C.<br />Pass/No Pass Limits<br />All courses taken for major requirements must be for letter grade, unless the course is only offered Pass/No Pass.<br />Course Level Requirement<br />A minimum of 3 credits of studio art and 3 credits of art history must be taken in courses numbered above 299.<br />Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules, Transfer Credit Rules<br />No more than 6 hours of independent study courses may count toward the major in the BA degree. This includes all courses numbered 390, 392, 395, 396, 490, 492, 495, 496, and 499H offered by the School of Art, Art History and Design.<br />At least 15 credit hours in studio art and 9 credit hours in art history of the required BA courses must be taken at UNL. Courses taken at other academic institutions may be substituted for the remaining required courses subject to evaluation by the department.<br />Time and Credit Guidelines<br />The School of Art, Art History and Design adheres to the following time and credit guidelines established by the National Association of Schools of Art and Design (NASAD):<br />In studio courses, one hour of credit represents three hours of work each week of the 16-week semester. Two of the hours are spent in class with the instructor, and one hour of additional work is expected outside of regularly scheduled class time.<br />In lecture/discussion courses, one hour of credit represents one hour each week in class, and two hours each week of work outside of class for the duration of the 16-week semester.<br />BFA Degree<br />Grade Rules<br />C- and D Grades<br />Minimum grade for all major requirements is C.<br />Pass/No Pass Limits<br />All courses taken for major requirements must be for letter grade, unless the course is only offered Pass/No Pass.<br />Course Level Requirement<br />A minimum of 3 credits of art history must be taken in courses numbered above 299.<br />Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules, Transfer Credit Rules<br />No more than 9 hours of independent study courses may count toward the major in the BA degree. This includes all courses numbered 390, 392, 395, 396, 490, 492, 495, 496, and 499H offered by the School of Art, Art History and Design.<br />At least 36 credit hours in studio art and 6 credit hours in art history of the required BFA courses must be taken at UNL. Courses taken at other academic institutions may be substituted for the remaining required courses subject to evaluation by the department.<br />Time and Credit Guidelines<br />The School of Art, Art History and Design adheres to the following time and credit guidelines established by the National Association of Schools of Art and Design (NASAD):<br />In studio courses, 1 hour of credit represents three hours of work each week of the 16-week semester. Two of the hours are spent in class with the instructor, and one hour of additional work is expected outside of regularly scheduled class time.<br />In lecture/discussion courses, 1 hour of credit represents one hour each week in class, and two hours each week of work outside of class for the duration of the 16-week semester. </p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>

            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>