<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Pre-Law 17-18.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="pre-law-17-18">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Pre-Law</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Exploratory &amp; Pre-Professional Advising Center</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Pre-Law</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Non-degree seeking</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> N/A</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> N/A</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> N/A</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">The pre-law area of study is an advising category used to identify students advancing toward a law-related career goal. Students cannot declare a major or earn a degree in the pre-law area. Most students use their undergraduate academic program to develop the desired skill set for entry into law school and the legal profession. Students may select any UNL academic major while pursuing a pre-law area of study, and can temporarily select a major of “Pre-Law” through the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center (Explore Center) while they are exploring and determining which academic major they would like to declare.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students pursuing a pre-law area of study can receive guidance and advice from the Explore Center by declaring the pre-law category with their college advising office.</p>
<p class="title-1">Pre-Law</p>
<p class="basic-text">Law is the system we use to ensure order and justice for individuals and communities within our society. The broad nature of the legal field allows people to work with the law in a number of ways. Litigation (trial practice), representative practice, legal planning, education, and adjudication (becoming a judge) are traditional ways in which people work directly with the law. However, a legal education is useful and may be applied to a variety of other fields such as business, insurance, government, writing, resource management, or publishing.</p>
<p class="title-1">High School Preparation</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students planning to pursue advanced work in the pre-law program should begin with a strong college preparatory course program in high school. In addition to meeting the University entrance requirements, it is recommended that pre-law students finish four years of the same foreign language in high school.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>
<p class="title-1">Program Admission</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who have met the overall University admission requirements established by the Board of Regents are eligible for admission to the Explore Center. The University admission requirements are outlined in detail on the Admissions website at http://admissions.unl.edu/.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Some UNL colleges have admission requirements in addition to the overall University admission requirements, and pre-law students will be advised accordingly as they choose the majors they would like to pursue.</p>
<p class="title-1">Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies</p>
<p class="basic-text">Because admission requirements establish the level of knowledge and skills which are needed for a student to succeed at UNL, students who are admitted with core course deficiencies in foreign language and geometry are expected to quickly remove them. Deficiencies must be removed before a student is eligible for graduation.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADVISING</p>
<p class="basic-text">Professional academic advisors in the Explore Center engage pre-law students in major exploration, degree planning, and academic course work selection processes. By working closely with all of the UNL colleges, Explore Center advisors can help students design a general academic plan for one or more semesters that will allow them to progress toward a degree, while also exploring the variety of opportunities offered by the University. Students are encouraged to enroll in exploratory courses to help identify majors of interest. Additionally, all UNL students are required to complete the Achievement-Centered Education (ACE) requirements (for more information see http://ace.unl.edu).</p>
<p class="basic-text">Pre-law students are encouraged to meet with a professional academic advisor in the Explore Center early in their first semester at UNL to discuss interest areas and to develop a plan for major exploration. Pre-law students should continue to meet with an Explore Center advisor at least once per semester and participate in Explore Center workshops until they have declared their major. Additional information concerning major exploration can be found on the Explore Center (http://explorecenter.unl.edu) and Career Services (http://www.unl.edu/careers/explore) websites.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are assigned to a professional academic advisor in the Explore Center but may see any advisor in the Center. Professional advisors in the Explore Center are available on an appointment and/or walk-in basis Monday through Friday in 127 Love (Library) South and can be reached at 402-472-3605 or explorecenter@unl.edu.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ACADEMIC POLICIES</p>
<p class="title-1">Academic Load</p>
<p class="basic-text">Pre-law students may enroll in a maximum of 18 credits in the fall and spring semesters. Students should refer to the Office of the University Registrar's website at http://registrar.unl.edu to determine the number of credits they may enroll in for each of the summer sessions.</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Pass/No Pass grading option was designed to enable students to take courses in areas of interest where they may feel they have had minimal preparation without adversely affecting their grade point average. Grades of P (pass) are interpreted as a grade of C or better. Neither grade P or NP (no pass) contributes to the grade point average.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Pre-law students should always seek assistance from an Explore Center advisor in determining whether they should take a course through the Pass/No Pass option. Students may or may not be able to take courses Pass/No Pass depending on their intended majors.</p>
<p class="title-1">Student Recognition</p>
<p class="basic-text">Pre-law students who complete at least 12 graded semester hours with a 3.60 GPA are eligible for the Explore Center List of Distinguished Students.</p>
<p class="title-1">Transfer Credit Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Explore Center does not offer a degree and advisors do not make transfer evaluation decisions. The determination of which transfer courses will meet graduation requirements in a specific college cannot be made until the student declares a specific major within one of the UNL undergraduate degree-granting colleges.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>