<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Pre-Veterinary Medicine 17-18.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="pre-veterinary-medicine-17-18">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Pre-Veterinary Medicine</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Pre-Veterinary Medicine</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Non-degree program</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 60-70</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> Usually 2.50</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Roberto Cortinas</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">Director and Associate Dean: Clayton L. Kelling, School of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, 120C Vet Basic Sciences</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">Head: Clinton Krehbiel, Department of Animal Sciences, C203 Animal Science</p>


<p class="faculty-list">The Nebraska Pre-Veterinary Medicine program (PVET) is designed for students who want to become veterinarians. The Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) degree, or its equivalent, must be earned to become a veterinarian. Students wishing to earn the DVM degree must first successfully complete the undergraduate Pre-Veterinary Medicine program to qualify for admission to a veterinary school that awards the DVM degree.</p>

<p class="MsoNormal">The Nebraska PVET program can help students qualify for admission to any of the American Veterinary Medical Association Council on Education (AVMA-COE)-accredited veterinary schools which offer the DVM degree or its equivalent. Students completing our PVET program do not earn baccalaureate degrees nor are they guaranteed admission to any veterinary school.</p>

<p>There are three general PVET requirements for admission to veterinary schools: academic, career exploration, and leadership development. Applicants are assessed in each of those areas during the application process.</p>

<p>Academic requirements include specific undergraduate courses that must be successfully completed, and course and cumulative grade point averages (GPAs). The specific courses included in a PVET program are specified by each of the veterinary schools. There is not standard curriculum, so each veterinary school publishes its PVET course requirements. The undergraduate courses included in our PVET program are those for the Professional Program in Veterinary Medicine (PPVM), however, our PVET program can be modified so that a student can qualify academically for admission to any AVMA-COE accredited veterinary school. The PVET course requirements for other veterinary schools may be found on those schools’ websites. A list of AVMA-accredited veterinary school may be obtained on the AVMA website at https://www.avma.org/ProfessionalDevelopment/Education/Accreditation/Colleges/Documents/colleges_accredited.pdf.</p>

<p>Veterinary schools require that their applicants attain a minimum cumulative GPA to be considered for admission. The PPVM requires a cumulative GPA of at least a 2.50 for application consideration. Minimum cum GPA requirements for other veterinary schools may be found on their respective websites.</p>

<p>The veterinary medical career exploration requirement is intended to help PVET students to learn what veterinarians do professionally and that is usually done by working in a veterinary clinic in either a paid or unpaid status. Students may also explore other aspects of veterinary medicine, including government service, academic or industrial research, or military service. It is recommended that students develop a professional relationship with a veterinarian so that veterinarian may write a good letter of recommendation in support of that student's application to veterinary school.</p>

<p>As stated previously, completion of the PVET program does not earn the student a baccalaureate degree. We recommend that students wishing to become veterinarians start as a PVET major so they can take every advantage of our PVET advising program. Our PVET advisors will help their advisees reach their academic and career goals. We strongly recommend that PVET students declare a degree-granting major, such as Veterinary Science, Animal Science, Fisheries &amp; Wildlife, or biochemistry, and pursue a baccalaureate degree while completing the PVET requirements. One baccalaureate degree does not provide an advantage for admission to a veteirnary school compared to others. The student may choose any baccalaureate program that is of interest to the student.</p>

<p>Expect to spend 2-3 years completing the PVET program. If the student is not prepared to start the science-intensive PVET program, its completion will take longer. Adequate preparation includes math proficiency, as indicated by the Nebraska Math Proficiency Examination (MPE). Students who do not place into at least MATH 102 – College Trigonometry may take longer to complete the PVET program and baccalaureate degree.</p>

<p>Additional requirements for the pre-vet program:</p>
<p>Pass/No Pass credits are not accepted. Pre-Vet courses must be taken for a grade, unless the course is only offered Pass/No Pass.</p>
<p>A grade of C or better is necessary to fulfill the pre-vet requirement. If a course is repeated to obtain a higher grade or to earn a grade of C or better, some professional programs may consider the average of all grades earned for that course. Other programs may consider the highest grade or the most recent grade. Check the policy of each veterinary school to which application is to be made.</p>
<p>The acceptability of AP, CLEP, or IB earned credits varies by veterinary school. It is important for each student to check the policies of the veterinary school to which application is to be made.</p>



<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">PPVM Pre-Veterinary Medicine Core</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> What follows fulfills the PVET requirements for the Professional Program in Veterinary Medicine (PPVM), a cooperative program between the University of Nebraska–Lincoln and Iowa State University. Criteria for admission to that program may be found on the PPVM website at http://vetmed.unl.edu/prospectivestudents. This program may be modified so that a student may qualify academically for admission to any American Veterinary Medical Association Council on Education-accredited veternary school. Students planning to attend other veterinary schools must check with those schools to determine the differences between the other veterinary school and the PPVM PVET requirements.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">College Integrative Course 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">SCIL 101 Science and Decision-Making for a Complex World 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Veterinary Science 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">VBMS 101 Success in Veterinary Science 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Natural Science Courses 39-43</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Life Sciences 8</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L Fundamentals of Biology I &amp; Lab (ACE 4) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L Fundamentals of Biology II &amp; Lab (ACE 4) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> <span class="requirement-ital">BIOS 101/101L and BIOS 112/112L or their equivalents will not satisfy this requirement.</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Genetics 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AGRO 315 Genetics <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BIOS 206 General Genetics 4</p>

<p class="MsoNormal">Anatomy and Physiology 4-9</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">Select from the following courses, one in either physiology or anatomy is required, but one course in each subject area is recommended:</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">ASCI 340 Animal Physiological Systems (4 cr);</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">or BIOS 213/213L Human Physiology and lab (4 cr) ;</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">or BIOS 214 Human Anatomy (5 cr);</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">or VBMS 307 Introduction to Veterinary Anatomy (4 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Chemistry 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I (ACE 4) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II (ACE 4) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 251 Organic Chemistry I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 252 Organic Chemistry II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I Lab <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 254 Organic Chemistry II Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Physics 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Select from:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHYS 141 Elementary General Physics I (ACE 4) (5 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 221 General Physics I &amp; Lab (5 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="requirement-ital"> PHYS 151 and MSYM 109/109L do not meet the requirement.</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Biological Chemistry 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Select from:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOC 321 Elements of Biochemistry (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOC 431 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism (BIOS 431/CHEM 431) (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Mathematics and Statistics 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Five credit hours beyond MATH 101 College Algebra</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Select from:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 102 Trigonometry (2 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 103 College Algebra &amp; Trigonometry (5 cr) <span class="requirement-ital">(only 2 credit hours apply)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 104 Applied Calculus (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 106 Calculus I (5 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">STAT 218 Introduction to Statistics (ACE 3) (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Communications 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Written Communication (ACE 1) 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Select two from:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENGL 150 Writing &amp; Inquiry (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENGL 151 Writing &amp; Argument (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENGL 254 Writing &amp; Communities (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JGEN 120 Basic Business Communication (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JGEN 300 Technical Communication II (3 cr)</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">Oral Communication (ACE 2) 3</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">Select one from:</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">ALEC 102 Interpersonal Skills for Leadership (3 cr)</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">COMM 101 Communication in the 21st Century</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">COMM 109 or 109H Fundamentals of Human Communication</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">COMM 209 or 209H Public Speaking</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">COMM 283 Interpersonal Communication</p>
<p class="MsoNormal">COMM 286 Business and Professional Communication</p>

<p class="MsoNormal">or any ACE 2 course</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-3 basic-text"><span style="color: #5b5b5a; font-family: 'Mercury SSm A', 'Mercury SSm B', Georgia, serif; font-size: 16px; background-color: #fefdfa;"></span></p>

<p class="requirement-sec-1">Economics (ACE 6) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Select one from:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AECN 141 Introduction to the Economics of Agriculture (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ECON 200 Economic Essentials and Issues (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ECON 211/ECON 211H Principles of Macroeconomics (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ECON 212/ECON 212H Principles of Microeconomics (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">ACE Courses 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Select one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, and 9.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-1">All courses taken to meet PVET requirements must be taken for a letter grade, unless the course is offered only pass/no pass.</p>
<p class="title-1">Most veterinary schools require a grade of at least a C in each PVET course. Exact PVET course grade requirements for admission should be determined for each veterinary school to which application is to be made.</p>

<p>A minimum cumulative GPA of 2.50 is generally required for application to a veterinary school. The exact GPA requirement for admission should be obtained for each veterinary school to which application is to be made.</p>
<p><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;"></span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 115%; font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;"></span></p>


            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>