<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Speech-Language Pathology 17-18.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="speech-language-pathology-17-18">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Speech-Language Pathology</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Speech-Language Pathology</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.50 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Cameya Ramirez-Rousseau and Amanda Bergeron-Bauer</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">The bachelor of science in communication sciences and disorders provides the preprofessional courses required for graduate study in either speech-language pathology or audiology. The entry level for practice as a speech-language pathologist requires a masters degree in speech-language pathology. A doctorate of audiology (AuD) is required to practice audiology. Upon completion of degree and licensure/certification requirements, a person may work in a variety of settings including schools or other education agencies, medical clinics or other medical/nursing facilities, health agencies, or private practice.</p>
<p class="title-1">General Information</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College offers undergraduate programs leading to a bachelor of science in education and human sciences degree in more than 40 different teaching endorsements. Some students in other UNL colleges choose to seek certification, completing a degree in their home college while meeting all requirements for teacher certification in the College of Education and Human Sciences.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Early field placement in public and private schools is a nationally recognized hallmark of the teacher education program in the College of Education and Human Sciences. While internships are a valuable enhancement to many students’ education, in the College of Education and Human Sciences, practicum experiences and student teaching are a critical and essential part of the teacher education curriculum and these must be successfully completed. A student’s inability to complete these field experiences, for any reason, may adversely impact the candidate’s ability to gain admission into the College or maintain enrollment in a teacher preparation program. Students unlikely or unable to complete the field experience may be counseled to seek other opportunities where success is more attainable. (See “Criminal History Background Check Requirement” and “Professional and Ethical Behavior” under the OTHER heading for additional information with respect to behaviors impacting field experience participation.)</p>
<p class="basic-text">Teacher education endorsements are divided into field endorsements or single-subject endorsements. Field endorsements certify the candidate to teach a broader range of courses compared to single-subject endorsements, which certify the candidate to teach in one subject area only. Consequently, a teacher holding a field endorsement is typically more marketable than a teacher holding a single-subject endorsement.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Candidates may also elect to complete requirements for supplemental endorsements; these are additional endorsements that can be added to a field or single-subject endorsement but cannot be taken alone. Supplemental endorsements require additional credit hours beyond those needed for the first endorsement (field or single-subject). Teachers may increase their marketability by adding supplemental endorsements.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may also choose to complete requirements for two endorsements simultaneously. Completing a second endorsement will require additional credit hours beyond those required for the first endorsement. Often the completion of two endorsements requires more than 120 credit hours of course work and may require additional semesters of course work. Students may contact the College Student Services Center, 105 Henzlik Hall, or their advisor, for assistance in deciding whether to complete: field or single-subject endorsements, one or more supplemental endorsements, or multiple endorsements.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Admission to the College of Education and Human Sciences does not guarantee admission into a teacher education program. Admission into the undergraduate pre-professional training program in Communication Sciences and Disorders does not guarantee admission into graduate school. Graduate programs have competitive admission requirements.  To stay on track in the program, student must:</p>
<p class="basic-text">1. Complete courses by certain times in sequence.</p>
<p class="basic-text">2. Maintain an average of 3.0 or better across SLPA courses</p>


<p class="numbered-list">3. Have a cumlative GPA of 3.0 or better by the end of year 2 in program. </p>


<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Endorsement Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Degree at a Glance</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">ACE Requirements  32-41</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 1. ENGL 151  3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 2. COMM 109 or COMM 209 or COMM 210 or COMM 286 or ALEC 102  3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 3. STAT 218 or EDPS 459  3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 4. *see course(s) listed in specific emphasis below 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 5. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 6. CYAF 160 or EDPS 250 or EDPS 251  3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 7. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 8. SLPA 421 (if in Audiology or Speech-Pathology emphasis) or SLpA 490: Research Issues (if in Speech, Language, &amp; Hearing Research Emphasis) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 9. **see course(s) listed in specific emphasis below 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 10. See SLPA 496 in emphasis below fro total # of credit hours 3-12</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-1">Communication Sciences and Disorders Core Requirements 41 credits</p>
<p>GERO 200 or 455 or 459, SLPA 250, SLPA 453, SLPA 454 (3 credits); AGRO 315 OR BIOS 206, PSYC 181, SLPA 150, SLPA 251, SLPA 455, SLPA 456 (4 credits); MATH 103 OR 106 OR 106B (5 credits)</p>
<p><br />Choose one of the following Emphasis:</p>
<p>Audiology Emphasis 39 credits</p>
<p>SLPA 472, SLPA 473, <em>SLPA 488</em>** (3 credits each); BIOS 213/213L; <em>CHEM 109 or higher*</em>, LIFE 120/120L*, LIFE 121/121L*, PHYS 141 or higher*, SLPA 101, SLPA 102, SLPA 271 (4 credits each); BIOS 214 (5 credits); <em>SLPA 496 (3-12 credits)</em></p>
<p>Speech, Language, &amp; Hearing Research Emphasis 36-37 credits</p>
<p>BSEN 100 (1 credit), BSEN 112 (2 credits), BIOS 302, SLPA 490: Research Rotation &amp; Reflection (3 credits each); BIOS 213/213L, <em>CHEM 109 or higher*</em>, LIFE 120/120L*, LIFE 121/121L*, PHYS 141 or higher* (4 credits each); CSCE 100, 101/101L, or 155 (3-4 credits); BIOS 214 (5 credits); <em>SLPA 496 (6-12 credits)</em> </p>
<p>Speech-Language Pathology 35-36 credits</p>
<p>EDPS 362 or 457, SLPA 441, SLPA 472, <em>SLPA 488</em>**, TEAC 259; TEAC 331, 430, 431, 434, OR 437 (3 credits each); any BIOS or LIFE course*, <em>CHEM 109 or higher* OR PHYS 141 or higher</em>*, SLPA 271, SLPA 461/461L, SLPA 464 (4 credits each); BIOS 213/213L OR BIOS 214 (4-5 credits); <em>SLPA 496 (3-12 credits)</em></p>
<p>Electives 0-14</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 120</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">NOTE: SLPA students who complete sufficient course work in education will receive a minor in education along with the major degree.</p>
<p class="title-1">ACE Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their advisor prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Requirements in Education Programs</p>
<p class="basic-text">Requirements for completion of an undergraduate degree in a teacher preparation program include a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.75. Students seeking certification must also have a 2.5 GPA in their endorsement and education courses with no grade lower than a C in their pre-professional courses and no grade lower than a C+ in their professional education courses.</p>
<p class="title-2">Transfer Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Up to 9 hours of transfer credit with grades below C may be applied to the General Education requirements and elective classes in programs leading to the undergraduate degree in teacher preparation. Transfer grades of C- and D may not be used in the major/endorsement area courses or in the professional courses in teacher preparation programs.</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Grade Option–for Education Students</p>
<p class="basic-text">A student enrolled at the University may, in certain instances, take a grading option of Pass/No Pass (P/N) for a specific course. A grade of pass represents satisfactory completion of a course with a grade of C or better. Credits earned under the pass grade option count toward graduation, but no grade points are tabulated in the cumulative grade point average. Likewise, a grade of No Pass is not tabulated in the grade point average. The following rules apply to students who are enrolled in teacher preparation programs who choose the Pass/No Pass option:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Only one course in each subject endorsement may be taken P/N; two courses in a field endorsement may be taken P/N.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Pre-professional and professional education classes may not be taken P/N unless a class already has a P/N designation.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Any course in the general education requirements unless otherwise stipulated by the department of the course may be taken P/N.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Total P/N credits may not exceed 12 credit hours. This limit does not include courses offered on a P/N only basis.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL.</p>
<p class="title-2">Beyond Classroom Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">In all fields of study, students are expected to attain certain grades and other academic accomplishments in the classroom. In addition to this, students preparing themselves to be teachers, counselors and for other careers in education, are also reviewed to evaluate their ability to successfully and safely interact with children, parents, potential educational employers, and the community-at-large, whose interest in the education of its children often exceeds its concern for other community and governmental services.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>
<p class="title-1">Education Employment Services</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Career Services Center, 230 Nebraska Union, offers a professional placement service to students and alumni who are seeking employment in education and related fields. In addition to providing on-campus interviews with select schools throughout the year, this office sponsors an annual Education Recruitment Day in the spring, which offers students an opportunity to interview with hiring officials from many schools.</p>
<p class="title-1">Criminal History Background Check Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS) has the responsibility to ensure that all students who interact with children of all ages, served by schools or other public or private agencies meet a high level of personal, professional and ethical behavior. These CEHS students must complete an official criminal history background check through the CEHS vendor, prior to participating in a field experience or internship. Students are responsible for the cost of any required criminal history background check and will be required to complete one upon admission to a program and/or an initial field placement. Eighteen months after the initial background check has been completed, undergraduate students are required to complete the CEHS self-disclosure report, a self-report collected by the college. Graduate students will be required to complete the self-disclosure report at the same time as the initial background check is conducted and again eighteen months later. If more than three years have elapsed after the initial background check is conduced, CEHS students must complete an additional background check prior to participating in a field experience or internship. Students are responsible for the cost of additional background checks.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students with felony or any misdemeanor charges or convictions, as reported on the background check, may be contacted by the College. Depending upon the frequency and severity of the charges and/or convictions, students may be required to meet with the Director of Professional Experiences. If any new charges or convictions are acquired after a background check has been completed, students are required to report those to the Director of Professional Experiences within two weeks after the event occurs. Failure to disclose any new information concerning one's criminal history can lead to removal from the program. Continued participation in school or community field experiences in the College will be based on the type and number of convictions, the recency of those occurrences, and whether they violate the requirements of the Nebraska Department of Education and/or the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services. If the convictions are deemed to be serious in nature, a student may be prohibited from participating in a field experience in a pre-school, school or public agency setting. The student may then be referred to the department chair for further disciplinary action.</p>
<p class="title-1">Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students planning to enter professions in education or the human sciences must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and others. Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences requires that its students show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act in a responsible manner. Students must consider how the College, the profession, an employer, or the community perceive or evaluate the impact of any questionable behavior. Students' success in their profession is impaired by taking risks that are unacceptable for children, demonstrating a lack of professionalism and good judgment, and showing disregard for one's personal reputation or the integrity of the College.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to evaluate student fitness for the profession and deny entry to or dismiss a student from any program if, through the reasonable exercise of the judgment of its Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences, the College determines that the student's behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or represents risk to young persons. Such behaviors shall be adequate foundation to deny the student's participation in any practicum or field experience to protect the interests and safety of children. The consequences of unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will depend upon the unique circumstances involved.</p>
<p class="title-1">Appeal to the Dean</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences with respect to a criminal behavior or unprofessional behavior, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing, within ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student's written appeal shall clearly explain the basis for the appeal. The Dean will review the student's basis for appeal and is authorized but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student's written appeal. The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possible, but in no case longer than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences a written decision, which shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review with the University of Nebraska.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>