<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Journalism &amp; Mass Communications Main Page 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="journalism-mass-communications-main-page-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Journalism &amp; Mass Communications</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
<p class="content-box-m-p">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p>The College of Journalism and Mass Communications offers majors in advertising/public relations, broadcasting and journalism. In addition, students in any of the three majors may take a 12-hour emphasis in sports promotion/marketing or sports journalism.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">ADMISSION</p>
<p class="title-1">College Admission</p>
<p class="basic-text">The entrance requirements for the College of Journalism and Mass Communications are the same as the admission requirements for the University of Nebraska–Lincoln.</p>
<p class="basic-text">These include:</p>
<ul>
<li>English (4 units)</li>
<li>Mathematics (4 units)</li>
<li>Social studies (3 units)</li>
<li>Natural sciences (3 units), and</li>
<li>Foreign language (2 units).</li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">One unit equals one year of high school credit. Students with one deficiency, two deficiencies but not in the same category, or two deficiencies in foreign language who receive a Deferred Admission or Admission by Review, may be considered for admission to the college. Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL. These conditions are explained under Admission to the University, Removal of Deficiencies. High school deficiencies must be removed during the first 30 credit hours of enrollment at UNL (60 hours for foreign language) or the first calendar year, whichever takes longer.</p>
<p class="title-2">Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies</p>
<p class="basic-text">You must remove entrance deficiencies in geometry and foreign language before you can graduate from the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</p>
<p class="title-3">Removing Foreign Language Deficiencies</p>
<p class="basic-text">A student will need to complete the second semester of the first year language sequence to clear the deficiency and the second semester of the second-year language sequence to complete the college graduation requirement in language.</p>
<p class="title-3">Removing Geometry Deficiencies</p>
<p class="basic-text">A deficiency of one year of geometry can be removed by taking two high school geometry courses by Independent Study or by completing a geometry course from an accredited community college or a four-year institution. Neither of these options will count for college credit.</p>
<p class="title-2">Admission GPA</p>
<p class="basic-text">Any student transferring into the college must have at least a 2.0 GPA. A student with 12 or more hours of college credit must have at least a 2.0 GPA to be admitted or readmitted to the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</p>
<p class="title-2">Readmission</p>
<p class="basic-text">A student who left the University not in good standing (below a 2.0 grade point average) may be readmitted in the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center. Such a student would be eligible to reenter the College of Journalism and Mass Communications upon attaining a 2.0 cumulative GPA. This student would follow the bulletin in effect at the time of the transfer from Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center to the college.</p>
<p class="title-1">Other Admission Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Students from Other Colleges</p>
<p class="basic-text">College of Journalism and Mass Communications courses will be restricted to College of Journalism and Mass Communications majors except where stipulated differently. Students from colleges and departments with a written agreement with the College of Journalism and Mass Communications will be exempt from this policy. Permission may be granted by the dean of the College of Journalism and Mass Communications in special circumstances following the directives provided by the faculty in these matters.</p>
<p class="title-2">ESL Students</p>
<p class="basic-text">Applicants who speak English as a second language must present a TOEFL score of 70 or higher, which includes a subscore of at least 20 on the writing test. Additionally, broadcasting majors must present a score of at least 45 on the Test of Spoken English.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">ADVISING</p>
<p class="title-1">Academic Advising</p>
<p class="basic-text">Upon enrollment in the college, each student is assigned to an academic adviser. The student is expected to consult with an adviser each semester before registering for the next semester’s courses.</p>
<p>Although the advisers seek to assist students in the selection of courses leading toward graduation, the final decision regarding which courses are taken is ultimately the student’s. Therefore, students are responsible for identifying and enrolling in those courses that will lead to completion of all published degree requirements.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Each first-year student should meet with the academic adviser, 105 or 107 Andersen Hall. In addition, in the semester before reaching senior standing, each student should see the college’s advising coordinator, 141 Andersen Hall, to make sure all college and university requirements are completed.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</p>
<p class="title-1">Course Exclusions &amp; Restrictions</p>
<p class="title-2">Course Exclusions</p>
<p class="basic-text">Courses from the following areas will not count toward the bachelor of journalism degree.</p>
<ul>
<li>athletic coaching (ATHC)</li>
<li>athletic training (ATHT)</li>
<li>vocational agricultural leadership and education (ALEC) courses</li>
<li>vocational and adult education courses, business education courses student assistantships, teaching assistantships, proctoring, or grading internships of a journalistic nature taken through any university unit or department outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications</li>
<li>any independent study course, clinical course, experiential course or practicum outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications undertaken without the prior written approval of the student’s adviser</li>
<li>driver training education</li>
<li>industrial arts <span class="list-ital">(including courses concerned primarily with manual skills, tools, machines, or industrial processes and design)</span></li>
<li>orientation courses, such as UNL’s ALEC 397E and ALEC 397K <span class="list-ital">(neither course is applicable to the courses numbered above 299 requirement)</span>; ASCI 107; BIOC 101; BIOS 150, 160; EDPS 150; FDST 107; HRFS 183; NRES 101, NUTR 150; PSYC 100, PSYC 150; TEAC 210; VBMS 101</li>
<li>math courses below 100 and MATH 100A</li>
<li>course on word processing and graphics</li>
<li>EDPS 327 <span class="list-ital">(except EDPS 189H, EDPS 250, EDPS 251, EDPS 362, EDPS 457, and EDPS 459)</span></li>
<li>BSAD 150 or CSCE 137 or AGRI 271</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-2">Course Restrictions</p>
<p class="basic-text">Credit toward the degree may be earned in only one course, including honors sections, from each group of courses listed below:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 312 or AGRO 360</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 313 or BIOS 314</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 105, CHEM 109, CHEM 111, CHEM 113, CHEM 195</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 116 or CHEM 221</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 251 and more than 1 cr of CHEM 263</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 471 or CHEM 481</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CSCE 252D or CSCE 155N</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CSCE 252D or ELEC 121</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CSCE 340 or CSCE 480</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 210, or ECON 211 and ECON 212</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 215, CRIM 300, EDPS 459 or STAT 218</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">FREN 201 and FREN 202, or FREN 210</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">GEOL 100 or GEOL 101 or GEOL 101H</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">GEOL 103 or GEOL 105</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">GERM 201 and GERM 202, or GERM 210</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LATN 102 or LATN 201</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 101 and/or MATH 102 or MATH 103</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 104 or MATH 106</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 200 or MATH 300</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 201 or MATH 301</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 340 or MECH 480</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 141 or PHYS 151</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 151 or MSYM 109</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">SOCI 205 or CRIM 251</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">SOCI 311 or CRIM 337</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">SOCI 474 or CRIM 413</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">SPAN 201 and SPAN 202, or SPAN 210</p>
<p class="title-1">Credit Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Credit by Examination</p>
<p class="basic-text">Through study or experience that parallels a University of Nebraska-Lincoln course, a regularly enrolled university student may feel prepared to pass an examination on the course content for course credit. To apply for credit, a student should:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Pick up a credit-by-examination form at the Information Window, Office of the University Registrar, 107 Canfield Administration Building;</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Secure the approval signature of the dean of the college;</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Have the Credentials Office verify that he or she is currently enrolled;</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Secure the Bursar’s Receipt for Payment of the examination fee; and</p>
<p class="numbered-list">5. Present the completed form to the instructor designated by the dean’s office.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">The instructor will then give the examination and report the results to the <span class="no-style-override-1">Office of the University Registrar</span> through the dean of the college. A student is not permitted to receive credit by examination in a course that is a prerequisite for one in which he or she already has received credit.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Journalism and Mass Communications also gives credit for the subject and general examinations of the College Level Examination Program (CLEP) administered by the College Entrance Examination Board. Inquire in 107 Canfield Administration Building for the current policy regarding CLEP examinations.</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Appeals</p>
<p class="basic-text">The following is a synopsis of the College of Journalism and Mass Communications grade appeals policy. The policy is designed to provide students with protection through orderly procedures against prejudiced or capricious academic evaluation. A student with a concern about a grade should take the following steps:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Talk with the instructor involved. Many problems are resolved at this level.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Talk with an assistant or associate dean in 147 Andersen Hall.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. If the foregoing steps have not resulted in a solution, arrange to take the problem to the sequence grading appeals committee. This step involves presenting the problem in writing.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. If an appeal from the sequence committee is necessary, arrange to take the appeal to the College Grading Appeals Committee.</p>
<p class="title-1">Student Recognition</p>
<p class="title-2">Honors and Awards</p>
<p class="basic-text">Outstanding students are honored each spring during an honors convocation. The college recognizes students whose cumulative grade point averages place them in the top 10 percent of their respective classes, students who hold scholarships and students who have earned special awards.</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition, the college distributes a semester dean’s list. To be included on the semester dean’s list, a student must have earned at least a 3.7 semester GPA on 12 or more graded hours.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Kappa Tau Alpha.</span> The Will Owen Jones Chapter of Kappa Tau Alpha, the national journalism honorary, recognizes outstanding undergraduate and graduate students. Membership is limited to those in the top 10 percent of the junior and senior classes in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications who have completed the junior level professional courses. Each year the society honors a student achieving the highest four-year grade point average in the college and presents an award to the Distinguished Journalist of the Year.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Alpha Delta Sigma.</span> As the only national honorary society for advertising students, ADS recognizes outstanding academic achievement. Since ADS was initiated in 1976, students nominated by their faculty advisers have been elected by division leaders into this exclusive scholastic group. An ADS chapter was founded at UNL in 1993. To be eligible for nomination, students must be enrolled in the local American Advertising Federation chapter (Ad Club).</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Alpha Epsilon Rho.</span> Alpha Epsilon Rho recognizes superior scholarship in the field of broadcasting. The University of Nebraska chapter was chartered in 1946. Membership is by invitation upon completion of 9 hours in broadcasting with a cumulative grade of 3.25 in broadcasting and 3.0 cumulative or above. For more information, contact the college office in 147 Andersen Hall.</p>
<p class="title-2">Degrees With Distinction</p>
<p class="basic-text">In recognition of academic excellence, the college recommends the bachelors degree with distinction, with high distinction and with highest distinction. To be recommended, candidates must fulfill the specific criteria as described below, in addition to meeting all the general criteria and procedures applicable to all distinction classifications. The thesis and results of the examination over the thesis in each instance must be acceptable to the advisory committee.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Highest Distinction.</span> <span class="no-style-override-2">Candidates for the bachelors degree may be recommended for degrees with highest distinction on the basis of the following criteria: scholastic standing within the top 5 percent of the graduating class of the college in the preceding 12-month period and the advisory committee’s recommendation based upon a thesis or comparable creative effort and an oral examination over that thesis or creative effort.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">High Distinction.</span> Candidates for the bachelors degree may be recommended for degrees with high distinction by fulfilling one of two sets of criteria: 1) by achieving scholastic standing within the top 5 percent of the graduating class of the college in the preceding 12-month period; or 2) by achieving scholastic standing within the top 10 percent of the graduating class of the college in the preceding 12-month period and by recommendation of the advisory committee based on a thesis or comparable creative effort and an oral examination over that thesis or creative effort.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Distinction.</span> Candidates for the bachelors degree may be recommended for degrees with distinction by achieving one of two sets of criteria: 1) by achieving scholastic standing within the top 10 percent of the graduating class of the college in the preceding 12-month period; or 2) by achieving scholastic standing within the top 15 percent of the graduating class (never below a 3.7 GPA) of the college for the preceding 12-month period and by recommendation of the college’s advisory committee based upon a thesis or comparable creative effort and an oral examination over that thesis or creative effort.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The following criteria apply to all categories:</span> Ordinarily, only students who have taken their last 48 hours of course work in residence will be considered for degrees with distinction. In considering individual cases, the advisory committee will review both grades and the program of courses. Students who choose one of the thesis options described above should make arrangements before their senior year by consulting with their academic advisers. These students must register for ADPR 499H or JOUR 499H for one hour of credit in the semester they plan to complete the thesis proposal and register for an additional two hours of credit in the semester they plan to complete the thesis. Normally, the thesis must be completed seven weeks before the end of the fall or spring terms to meet the deadlines of Graduation Services. At least two members of the student’s honors thesis committee must make a recommendation to the advisory committee on the thesis work.</p>
<p class="basic-text">During the semester before the student intends to graduate, she or he should visit the dean’s office in Andersen Hall to obtain the schedule of deadline dates for submission of reports of examining committees. The forms for making the reports are also available in the dean’s office.</p>
<p class="title-2">Scholarships</p>
<p class="basic-text">Each year the college awards more than 100 scholarships worth more than $178,000. Most scholarships go to upperclassmen, although a limited number are awarded to freshmen.</p>
<p class="basic-text">College scholarship information is available on-line at the college’s website, www.unl.edu/journalism/students/undergrad/scholarships.shtml. The forms must be completed and returned to the dean’s office by February 1. Awards are made in April and May.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Entering freshmen must apply through the university’s Admissions Office in the Van Brunt Visitor Center, 313 N. 13th Street. Additional applications and letters of explanation may be sent to the college at the following address:</p>
<p class="basic-text">College of Journalism and Mass Communications</p>
<p class="basic-text">University of Nebraska–Lincoln</p>
<p class="basic-text">Scholarship Committee</p>
<p class="basic-text">147 Andersen Hall</p>
<p class="basic-text">PO Box 880443</p>
<p class="basic-text">Lincoln, NE 68588-0443</p>
<p class="title-1">Senior Check/Degree Audit</p>
<p class="basic-text">It is no longer necessary to request a “senior check.” Graduation Services, 109 Canfield Administration Building, will send electronic notification via email that a senior check has been completed. Students should review a current degree audit through the MyRED student portal to identify any unfulfilled requirements in the student’s academic program.</p>
<p class="basic-text">With each term’s registration, students should determine how course selections apply to requirements by obtaining a degree audit, available at the MyRED link on http://www.unl.edu.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students should print their degree audits and take them to the meetings with their advisers. Because the Web-based degree audit system loads overnight, one can examine a new audit no sooner than one day after registering for classes.</p>
<p class="title-2">Application for Degree</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students should access their Degree Audit via MyRed at least once each term to review degree requirements and progress toward graduation. It is the student’s responsibility to make sure their Degree Audit accurately reflects their current College and program of study.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are expected to develop a clear understanding of degree requirements and to plan their course of study with a College adviser. Students requiring clarification of outstanding degree requirements should visit with a College adviser promptly. Students who believe their Degree Audit has errors or omissions should visit with a College adviser promptly. It is important that you resolve these matters as soon as practicable to avoid a delay in graduation.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Each student must submit an Application for Graduation plus $25.00 check or cash fee for each degree to be received to the Office of the University Registrar by:</p>
<ul>
<li><span style="color: #333333;">The last Friday in January for May graduation</span></li>
<li><span style="color: #333333;">The last Friday in June for August graduation</span></li>
<li><span style="color: #333333;">The last Friday in September for December graduation</span></li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">An electronic Application for Graduation and payment is available via MyRed. Those students choosing to apply for graduation in person may visit the Office of the University Registrar, 107 Canfield Administration Building. Applications for Graduation submitted in person or by mail must be accompanied by payment. Failure to submit a timely Application for Graduation may preclude the awarding of a degree in the intended term.</p>

<p class="basic-text">The first semester during which the transcript indicates a student is an advertising and public relations or broadcasting or journalism major establishes the semester in which he or she is considered to have entered the college.</p>
<p class="title-1">Student Standing/Classification</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Sophomore Standing.</span> For admission to sophomore standing a student must have completed a minimum of 27 semester hours of credit and attained a total grade point average of at least C.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Junior Standing.</span> A student has junior standing after meeting the requirements for sophomore standing and completing 53 semester hours of credit.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Senior Standing.</span> A student has senior standing after meeting the requirements for junior standing and completing 89 semester hours of credit.</p>
<p class="title-1">Waivers/Substitutions</p>
<p class="basic-text">The college will allow no waivers for graduation requirements. If students think they have met the intent of a particular requirement in some other fashion, they may submit a substitution request form.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The form requires students to justify the request and secure recommendations from an academic adviser. Students must submit completed requests, with appropriate recommendations, to that academic adviser no later than two working days prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the College Executive Committee. Decisions to grant or deny requests will be made by the college’s advising coordinator on non-major issues, and by the appropriate sequence head on issues regarding the major; appeals will go to the college’s executive committee.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students must remember that it is their responsibility to know and follow the graduation requirements of the college. A substitution request should come only after all other avenues of advising and course work have been exhausted.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The faculty will consider only substitutions. Under no circumstances will requirements be waived. A substitution shall be defined as:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. The replacement of a required course by a course of very similar content.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Credit by examination when offered.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. The replacement of a required course with significant professional experience. This will be allowed only in rare instances. The experience will substitute only for course content, not for credit hours. Additional credit hours may be needed to maintain minimum credit hour requirements for graduation.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">ACE REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="basic-text">All students must fulfill the Achievement Centered Education (ACE) requirements. Information about the ACE program may be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">BULLETIN TO USE</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who left the university in good standing may be readmitted in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications, and they may choose the bulletin under which they wish to graduate according to the following guidelines:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Students must fulfill the requirements stated in the Undergraduate Bulletin for the year they enter the College of Journalism and Mass Communications or in any subsequent bulletin published while they are enrolled in the college.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. A student must, however, meet the requirements from one bulletin only rather than choosing a portion from one bulletin and the remainder from another.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. No returning student may use a bulletin that is 10 years old or older. In addition, any student seeking graduation credit for a College of Journalism and Mass Communications course taken more than 10 years prior to graduation must demonstrate mastery of the material currently included in that course at the proficiency level satisfactory to the relevant sequence head and one or more faculty members qualified to teach the course in question. Students unable to demonstrate satisfactory mastery of the course material will be required to repeat the original course or a corresponding contemporary course designated by the college’s advisory committee, if the original course is no longer offered.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">College General Education Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">To graduate with a bachelor of journalism degree, students must complete requirements from the following areas:</p>
<ul>
<li>the University ACE requirements</li>
<li>the requirements for a major offered by the college</li>
<li>the non-major requirements that are specific to the college</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-1">College Non-Major Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College non-major requirements (NMR) are designed to further the purposes of liberal education by encouraging study in several different areas. Courses satisfying these requirements may impart specialized knowledge or broadly connect the subject matter to other areas of knowledge.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Group 1—</span>The college requires a second set of ACE 1-9 courses beyond the ACE courses required by UNL, which must include a lab related to an ACE 4 course. This set of courses is identified as Group 1.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Group 2—</span>Candidates for the bachelor of journalism degree must abide by the Accrediting Council on Education in Journalism and Mass Communication accrediting guidelines, which require 72 semester hours be completed outside the college in subjects approved by UNL as liberal education/liberal arts courses and traditional liberal arts and sciences courses. All ACE courses from outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications, and all traditional liberal arts courses (departments identified in the degree audit) will apply to Group 2, along with non-vocational ALEC courses, College of Business Administration courses and College of Fine and Performing Arts courses and any from NUTR, HRTM, and TMFD, unless specifically excluded. These 72 hours of liberal education/liberal arts courses are identified as Group 2.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Students graduating with 120 hours can take a maximum of 48 hours in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications. Students may take additional hours in the college, but those hours will be in addition to the 120 hours required to graduate.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Group 4—Specializations:</span> 36 hours</p>
<p class="basic-text-no-indent">CoJMC majors must complete the 36-hour requirement for specializations (areas of focus) outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</p>
<p class="basic-text">This may be accomplished in a variety of ways. Students may take three concentrations of 12 hours each from one subject area outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications (for example ENGL), or a minor specified by a department or an inter-disciplinary program (such as WMNS or FILM). For any outside concentration, at least 6 hours in the concentration must be at the 200-level or above.</p>
<p class="basic-text">A minor designated by a department (Plan A or Plan B) can take the place of a 12-hour concentration. Two 18-hour outside concentrations or minors will complete the 36-hour group requirement. Two minors of less than 18 hours each will complete the requirement, as long as the balance of the 36 hours is completed in one or the other of the minors or in an additional 12-hour concentration. That is, if students take an 18-hour minor and a 15-hour minor, they may complete one more 3-hour course in either area to satisfy the 36-hour requirement, but two 12-hour minors would necessitate an additional 12-hour concentration or an additional six hours in each of the two minors.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Courses may count simultaneously toward two minors or concentrations only after 36 hours have been completed.</p>
<p class="basic-text">In no case will CoJMC courses count toward a concentration or a minor. Only grades of C or better will count toward concentrations, minors or second majors.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE: </span>Students who choose an outside major of 24-35 hours will complete the Specializations requirement by taking the balance of the 36 hours from the major department or by taking a separate 12-hour concentration. Students completing an arts and sciences major will additionally need to complete the arts and sciences distribution requirements.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Group 4—Languages—Classical and Modern:</span> 0-6 or 10 hours</p>
<p class="basic-text-no-indent">Usually fulfilled by the completion of 6 credit hours at the 200 level or above in a single foreign language in one of the following departments: classics and religious studies, modern languages and literatures, or anthropology. Instruction is currently available in Biblical Hebrew, Chinese, Czech, French, German, Greek, Japanese, Lakota, Latin, Russian, and Spanish. A student who has completed the fourth-year level of one foreign language in high school is exempt from the languages requirement. All foreign language courses will count also in Group 2.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> Language courses at the 100 level or those numbered 201, 202 or 210 do not apply to Group 3 concentrations. Language course numbered 203, 204, or 300 and higher will apply to Group 3 concentrations.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Options for completion of language requirement:</span></p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Regular four-semester sequence: 101, 102, 201, and 202 (5, 5, 3, 3 hours for a total of 16)</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Three-semester sequence: 101, 102, and 210 (5, 5, 6 hours for a total of 16)</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. 101, 102 fall and spring semesters; 201, 202 summer sessions (5, 5, 3, 3 hours for a total of 16). This and the option below constitute the only possibilities to finish the complete requirement in one year.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. (For Spanish) 101, 102 at UNL; 201, 202 at Monterrey Summer Institute (6 hours). (5, 5, 6 hours for a total of 16.) One six-week summer session (1st summer session). See modern languages non-majors adviser for information and application.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">5. Lastly, students who have completed at least two years of one foreign language in high school may satisfy the college’s foreign language requirement by completing 101 and 102 in a different foreign language.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Students who have taken three years or fewer of a foreign language in high school should contact the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures for recommended placement.</p>
<p class="basic-text">A student who achieves a specified scaled score in the College Level Examination Program (CLEP) subject exam in French, German and Spanish, Levels 1 and 2, may be exempted from the language requirement and may also receive credit for the fourth semester course in the language. Students who want to exercise this option must receive permission from the dean of the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</p>
<p class="basic-text">A transfer student with 11 or 12 semester hours of accepted credit in a single foreign language has two choices: a) to complete 201 and 202 in the same language; or b) to enroll in 202 with permission of the chair of the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures.</p>
<p class="basic-text">A student from a foreign country who has demonstrated acceptable proficiency in his or her native language (other than English) is exempted from the foreign language requirement without credit toward the degree. United States citizens who present acceptable evidence that their second language is English are exempted from the language requirement without credit toward the degree. All such students should see the dean of the College of Journalism and Mass Communications for this exemption. If students choose to complete Group 4 with two minors and either (or both) of the two minors requires less than 18 hours, the hours remaining to total 36 may be taken in either of the two areas.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Group 5—</span>At least 30 of the 120 semester hours of credit must be in courses numbered above 299.</p>
<p class="title-1">Minimum Hours Required for Graduation</p>
<p class="basic-text">A minimum of 120 semester hours of credit is required for graduation from the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="no-style-override-2">The college will accept no more than 15 semester hours of grades less than a C from any program outside the University of Nebraska system. No grades less than a C will count toward a major, a minor, or concentration.</span></p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">The college will accept up to 24 hours of Pass/No Pass courses toward a bachelor of journalism degree, subject to the following limits.</p>
<p class="basic-text">All courses in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications must be taken for grade only. No journalism course may be taken Pass/No Pass. This applies to both majors and non-majors.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Pass/No Pass (P/N) option is designed to be used by students seeking to expand their intellectual horizons by taking courses in areas where they may have minimum preparation without adversely affecting a student’s grade point average.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Neither a P (pass) nor an N (no pass) contributes to a student’s GPA.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. P (pass) is interpreted to mean a grade of C or better. A student who earns a C- or lower will receive a grade of N.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. P/N is not available to students on academic probation unless the course is offered only that way.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. For undergraduates, the 24-hour college limit shall apply. This limit does not include courses offered on a Pass/No Pass only basis or AP credit. This limit does apply to transfer courses from UNO, UNK, UNMC, and other institutions.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">5. P/N hours can count toward fulfillment of group requirements, including concentrations, up to the 24 credit hour maximum. No journalism major may take a journalism course Pass/No Pass.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">6. Students may change from graded to P/N only until half way through the course. Additionally, after the half-way date, a student registered for P/N cannot change to graded unless the P/N registration is in conflict with a professor, department, college, or university policy governing P/N. Changing from graded to P/N or from P/N to graded can be completed on MyRED or by filing a drop/add form with the Office of the University Registrar, 107 Canfield Administration Building, and needs no instructor’s approval.</p>
<p class="title-1">Residency</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students must complete at least 30 of the 120 total hours for their degree at UNL. Students must complete at least half of their major course work including 6 hours above 299 in their major, and 15 of the 30 hours required above 299 in residence. Students transferring hours into the advertising and public relations or journalism majors must meet additional requirements, which are described under Transfer Credit Rules. To encourage participation in international study, the college accepts all prior-approved education abroad credits as hours in residence. UNL open enrollment and summer independent study courses count toward residence.</p>
<p class="title-1">Transfer Credit Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">The goal of the following policy is to ensure that students from other campuses meet the same standards required of students who take all their courses at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln’s College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The college will accept up to 6 hours in journalism and mass communications courses taken at institutions that do not have an accredited journalism and mass communications program. Students must take the remainder of the required hours in journalism courses on campus at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. In advertising and public relations, these courses must include one 300- or 400-level ADPR course and ADPR 489; and in broadcasting, BRDC 370 and BRDC 472 or BRDC 360 and BRDC 462. In journalism, the courses must include JOUR 302 and either JOUR 450 or JOUR 446. Students from ACEJMC-accredited programs may request equivalency reviews of the required courses at those schools. Degree candidates must accumulate 72 credit hours of non-journalism classes. These are to be selected from ACE courses outside of journalism and mass communications courses or courses in disciplines listed as Liberal Education/Liberal Arts, which includes non-vocational ALEC courses, College of Business Administration courses and College of Fine and Performing Arts courses.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Credit for courses taken at foreign universities and colleges will be transferred only after evaluation by the appropriate professor in the major. This evaluation may include examination of the student over subject matter studied at the foreign institution.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Normally, credit is not given for pre-university work. In some instances, it may be possible to receive credit through satisfactory examination.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">DEGREES &amp; MAJORS</p>
<p class="title-1">Bachelor of Journalism Degree Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">A minimum of 120 semester hours of credit is required for graduation from the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</p>
<p class="basic-text">A maximum of 12 hours of military science (MLSC), naval science (NAVS), and aerospace studies (AERO) may be counted toward the degree.</p>
<p class="basic-text">A maximum of 4 hours of practice courses in varsity sports and recreational activity courses (ATHP, COMB, FITN, INDV, ODED and RACS) or Basic Military Science, which is credit for active military duty, not ROTC course work.</p>
<p class="title-1">Majors</p>
<p class="basic-text">The major is 39 hours in advertising and public relations, 39 hours in broadcasting and 36 hours in journalism.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students must choose at least one of three undergraduate majors—advertising and public relations, broadcasting, or journalism. Each of these majors requires professional courses for students. Additionally, all students must take the following core courses: JOMC 101, JOMC 486, and JOMC 487. See the major page for specifics about these courses.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may complete two majors in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications by completing all requirements for each major; however, the second major in the college will not take the place of a concentration outside the college, shown as Group 3.</p>
<p class="title-1">Intercollege Studies</p>
<p class="basic-text">A student in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications pursuing a bachelor of journalism degree may also complete a second major in the College of Arts and Sciences as part of a four-year program. In addition to ACE and College of Journalism and Mass Communications requirements, students will be expected to meet all College of Arts and Sciences distribution requirements and major requirements. Because students choosing this option will not be earning a degree from Arts and Sciences, they will not be eligible for Arts and Sciences-based scholarships and aid, but they will be eligible for consideration for Phi Beta Kappa.</p>
<p class="basic-text">A student who prefers to receive the second degree would file for dual matriculation. Such a student would complete an additional 30 hours as part of earning the second degree.</p>
<p class="basic-text">JGEN courses, which are open to students from any college, do not count in any College of Journalism and Mass Communications major. Non-College of Journalism and Mass Communications students must have permission to enroll in any ADPR, BRDC, or JOUR courses. Permission generally is reserved for students whose colleges have agreements with the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">MINORS &amp; AREAS OF SPECIALIZATIONS OFFERED</p>
<p class="basic-text">The college offers a 12-hour emphasis in sports for CoJMC students enrolled in any of the college's three majors. Students may choose to emphasize sports promotion/marketing or sports journalism. All students should take JOMC 150 Introduction to Sports Communication and 3 other credit hours from Section A as well as 6 credit hours from Section B.</p>
<p class="title-3">Section A (3 hours)</p>
<ul>
<li>JOMC 150 Introduction to Sports Communication (3 hrs)</li>
<li>JOUR 326 Sports Reporting (3 hrs)</li>
<li>BRDC 375 Sports Broadcasting (3 hrs)</li>
<li>JOMC xxx Advanced Sports Communication <em>(call to get course no.)</em></li>
<li>ADPR, BRDC, or JOUR internship in sports</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-3">Section B (6 hours)</p>
<ul>
<li>JOUR 201 Editing I (3 hrs)</li>
<li>JOUR 202 Reporting I (3 hrs)</li>
<li>ADPR 251 Introduction to Advertising &amp; Public Relations (3 hrs)</li>
<li>ADPR 283 Strategy Development for Advertising &amp; Public Relations (3 hrs)</li>
<li>ADPR 450/850 Public Relations Theory &amp; Strategy (3 hrs)</li>
<li>ADPR 451/851 Public Relations Techniques (3 hrs)</li>
<li>ADPR 207 Communicating to Public Audiences (ALEC 207) (3 hrs)</li>
</ul>
<p><br /><span class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span> The 12 hours for the emphasis may not include any course already required for the major. You must meet the prerequisites for the classes or be admitted with special permission from the instructor.</span></p>
<p class="content-box-m-p">GRADUATE STUDENT INFORMATION</p>
<p class="title-1">Graduate Courses</p>
<p class="basic-text">Seniors in the University who have obtained in advance the approval of the dean for Graduate Studies may receive up to 12 credit hours for graduate courses taken in addition to the courses necessary to complete their undergraduate work, provided that such credits are earned within the calendar year prior to receipt of the baccalaureate. For procedures, inquire at the Office of Graduate Studies.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Course work taken prior to receipt of the baccalaureate may not always be accepted for transfer to other institutions as graduate work.</p>
<p class="title-1">The Graduate Program</p>
<p class="basic-text">A graduate program, leading to the master of arts degree, was established in 1975. It is designed to prepare the student to translate more effectively to mass audiences the complexities of a rapidly changing society. The program offers three graduate specializations:</p>
<ul>
<li>Media Studies</li>
<li>Integrated Media Communications</li>
<li>Professional Journalism</li>
</ul>
<p class="header-paragraph">Students entering the program must have the equivalent of an undergraduate major in an accredited program in journalism and mass communications or extensive professional experience. Persons seeking more information about graduate study in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications should consult the graduate bulletin or call or write the Gilbert M. and Martha H. Hitchcock Center for Graduate Study and Professional Journalism, 127 Andersen Hall, 402-472-3042, or visit the college’s website.</p>
<p class="title-2">Hitchcock Center for Graduate Study and Professional Journalism Development</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Hitchcock Center, with a $250,000 endowment from the Gilbert M. and Martha H. Hitchcock Foundation, helps finance the graduate program in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications and further develops the skills of Nebraska’s professional journalists. It accomplishes the latter goal by giving direct support to the state’s professional journalists through research projects and statewide workshops aimed at improving skills in newswriting, advertising and broadcasting. The center also funds a $5,000 graduate fellowship. Gilbert M. Hitchcock was a United States senator from Nebraska and founder of the <span class="basic-text-ital">Omaha World-Herald</span>.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>