<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>International_Engineering_Minor</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="international-engineering-minor">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">International Engineering Minor</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> International Engineering (Minor only)</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Minor only</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 18</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">This minor is for engineering majors ONLY.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This minor is designed to encourage and recognize undergraduate students who enhance their engineering education with courses and experiences consistent with the global nature of engineering and the economy.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The College of Engineering enables its students to participate in this approved minor subject to the following conditions:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. A minor will not reduce or alter the existing course or degree requirements for students electing to pursue a minor.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. A student’s minor program must be organized and approved by an adviser prior to the submission of the senior check to the department chair or head.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. The minor must be approved by the adviser, the department chair or head, the Dean and the cognizant program offering the minor.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. The College of Engineering will follow the “Plan A/B” format of the Arts and Sciences College in which a student pursuing a single minor must complete the “Plan A” requirements. A student pursuing a double (or greater) minor must fulfill either the “Plan A” or “Plan B” requirements for both minors depending on which plan is offered by the cognizant department.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Minors on the Lincoln or Omaha campuses may be added by approval of the College of Engineering Curriculum Committee and faculty.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The minor has four components:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Twelve (12) credit hours of courses in international engineering and related courses. The courses must be chosen from the list of courses maintained by the associate dean of Academic Affairs and the College Office of International Programs. The course list includes all sections of ENGR 490, MODL 98, and other courses as designated by the College of Engineering. A complete list of additional courses can be obtained from the Study Abroad Coordinator in the Dean’s Office at the College of Engineering.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition,</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">a. A minimum of 3 credit hours must be in ENGR 490 courses.</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">b. A minimum of 6 credit hours must be in 300-level courses or above.</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">c. A maximum of 6 credit hours may be taken Pass/No Pass.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Two (2) semesters with a minimum of 6 credit hours of college-level foreign language. The actual number of credit hours taken will depend on the specific courses taken by the student.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Participation in a study abroad experience in a program approved by the associate dean of Academic Affairs and the College Office of International Programs.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. A minimum of 9 credit hours of the course work listed for the international engineering minor cannot count toward the undergraduate engineering degree or the master of architectural engineering degree.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
