<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Advertising & Public Relations 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="advertising-public-relations-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Advertising & Public Relations</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Journalism &amp; Mass Communications</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Advertising &amp; Public Relations</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Journalism</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Michael Goff</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Brown, Mitchell, Shipley</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Hachtmann, Struthers</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Jones, Kiambi, Lauerman, Wagler, Wang</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors of Practice:</span> Goff, James, Larsen</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> Tidball</p>

<p class="basic-text"><span>The advertising and public relations major prepares students for careers in a wide variety of communication-related areas. Recent graduates have taken jobs in more than 20 states and several other countries in diverse careers such as retail and corporate advertising and marketing, media sales, brand management, media planning, account management, research, public relations, media relations, special event planning, mobile and digital communications, copywriting and layout and design.</span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span>The advertising and public relations faculty believes that a successful career must be built upon a solid foundation, an education that combines theory and practice. To achieve that end, the major offers courses in copywriting, layout, media planning, graphics, campaign development, research, management, and strategic communications. The curriculum is designed to emphasize strategy, planning and implementation in creative problem solving.</span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span>Much emphasis is placed on individual relationships between faculty and students, an interaction vital to a student’s creative development. An adviser also helps each student tailor an academic plan to meet his or her interests and needs.</span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span>In advertising and public relations classes, students often work with actual clients who present real-life problems. This experience gives students a professional perspective on problem<span> </span>solving in many sectors including nonprofit, retail, small business and community organizations as well as large corporations. Students are encouraged to augment their academic experience with internships.</span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span>The faculty, with many professional contacts both locally and nationwide, actively help students find jobs within the state and throughout the country. Students interested in majoring in advertising and public relations should contact the college office in 147 Andersen Hall, 402-472-3041.</span></p>





<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>

<p>The major is 39 hours in advertising and public relations.</p>
<p>The courses required for a major in advertising and public relations are as follows:</p>
<p>ADPR 251, ADPR 283, JOMC 101, JOMC 486, JOMC 487 and one of the following:</p>
<p>JOMC 160 or JOMC 161 <span></span></p>



<p class="MsoList"><span>Additionally, all ADPR majors take one of the following three: ADPR 429, ADPR 439, or ADPR 489, as well as 18 hours from approved electives for the major.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span>The 18 elective hours below comprise four optional areas of emphasis, including account services, creative/interactive, public relations or sports communication. Students also may select the elective courses from multiple areas of emphasis to provide a broad background. Among the 18 elective hours, students may select courses from JOUR, JOMC or BRDC; however, at least 9 of the 18 elective hours must be chosen from JOUR 201, JOUR 202, ADPR 207 or ADPR elective options numbered 300 or higher.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span>The account services emphasis includes the following: ADPR 329, ADPR 339, ADPR 360, ADPR 434, ADPR 481, and ADPR 484.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span>The creative/interactive emphasis options include the following: ADPR 323, ADPR 329, ADPR 333, ADPR 339, ADPR 433, ADPR 447, ADPR 458, ADPR 459, ADPR 483, and ADPR 484.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span>The public relations emphasis options include the following: ADPR 207, ADPR 329, ADPR 339, ADPR 417, ADPR 450, ADPR 451; JOUR 201 and JOUR 202.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span>The sports communication emphasis options include the following: JOMC 101; JOMC 150, JOUR 202; ADPR 450 and ADPR 451.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span>If approved by the Advertising and Public Relations sequence head, all areas of emphasis may further include the following: ADPR 491 or JOUR 491; ADPR 495 and ADPR 499H.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span>Students may complete two majors in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications by completing all requirements for each major. However, the second major in the college will not take the place of a concentration or any of the 72 hours required outside the college.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span>Graduating seniors also must complete JOMC 98, Senior Assessment. Typically, JOMC 98 is taken in the last semester. However, seniors who have completed all courses for the major may take it in the term preceding graduation.</span></p>

<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>

<p class="MsoNormal"><span>Internship policy</span><span></span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><span>Students may be able to earn credit for internships under certain<span class="msoIns"> </span>circumstances. Please go to the college website and find the Internship Policy under the Student Services tab.</span><span></span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><span> </span><span></span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><span>Credit in special experiences</span><span></span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal"><span>Students may earn up to 6 credit hours toward the degree in some student experiences: Jacht, National Student Advertising Competition, photojournalism reports, depth reports and others. Students may repeat the same course again for additional credit hours, but those credits will not count toward the degree inside or outside the major. Talk with an academic adviser for further information or specific questions.</span><span></span></p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>