<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Agricultural Education 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="agricultural-education-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Agricultural Education</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Agricultural Education</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Education</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation, 2.75  for graduation with teaching option</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes-Environmental Communication, Leadership &amp; Communication, Leadership &amp; Entrepreneurship</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Lloyd Bell (teaching), Gina Matkin (agricultural leadership)</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Head: Mark Balschweid,</span> Department of Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication; 300 Agriculture Hall</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Bell, Husmann, Terry</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor:</span> Matkin</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Cannon, Kang, Hastings, McElravy</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors of Practice:</span> Garbacz, Kreifels</p>
<p class="basic-text">A degree in agricultural education is designed to prepare students with the necessary communication and interpersonal skills, leadership training, and knowledge of technical agriculture to be a teacher of agricultural education at the secondary or postsecondary level, or accept employment in agribusiness leading to positions in training and/or development. The degree provides good preparation for work in agricultural extension, positions in foreign service, and agricultural educators in business and industry. Many students graduate with a dual degree in agricultural education and another degree in the College. Agricultural education students may elect to follow the teaching options or the leadership option.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR DEPARTMENT ADMISSION</p>

<p class="basic-text">Students desiring to be admitted to the Teacher Education program in the Department of Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication should apply as early as possible after the completion of at least 42 credit hours (at least one year before they plan to student teach). Student teaching is conducted off campus through university-approved agreements with cooperating secondary schools. Plans for student teaching must be made early.</p>
<p class="basic-text">To be admitted into the student teaching program candidates must have: 1) a minimum scholastic grade point average of 2.75 including no grades lower than “C” within the endorsement area, and no grades lower than “C+” within professional education courses, 2) passing scores within the Pre-Professional Skills Test (PPST), 3) 1,000 hours of verified work experience within the agriculture, food, natural resources (AFNR) career cluster, or 300 hours of supervised employment in the AFNR career cluster under the direction of a UNL academic unit, 4) three written letters of recommendation; one of which must be a character reference. Student Teaching (ALEC 431) is available as Pass/No Pass only. Meet with your adviser to plan for your student teaching experience.</p>
<p class="title-1">Other Admission Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Teaching Certificate</p>
<p class="basic-text">Successful completion of the teaching endorsement requirements, along with a recommendation by the Department of Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication, warrants recommendation for a Nebraska Secondary Teaching Certificate by the Nebraska Department of Education, with an endorsement to teach secondary agricultural education (7-12). The choice is available to students to complete course work qualifying for subject endorsement in biology.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in other agricultural degree programs may qualify based upon meeting the teaching certificate requirements.</p>
<p>Criminal History/Background Check</p>
<p>Effective August 2012, individuals enrolled in any UNL teacher education course requiring a practicum experience in schools or other institutions must have successfully completed a background review prior to any practicum visitations. Two successful reviews will be required during your teacher preparation program; one prior to your initial practicum experience, and a second prior to your student teaching field experience. Background reviews must be completed through One Source, The Background Check Company. See your adviser or practicum course instructor for necessary details to request and complete a background review.</p>
<p class="title-2">Nebraska State Department of Education Policy Pertaining to Students with Felony or Misdemeanor Convictions</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Nebraska Department of Education policy requires that a person with felony convictions or misdemeanor convictions involving abuse, neglect, or sexual misconduct shall not be allowed to participate in pre-student teaching laboratory and classroom experiences or student teach without approval by the Board of Education. To comply with this policy, the Department of Agricultural Education will require each student to affirm under oath that he/she does not have any convictions in the above-named areas prior to each field placement. If a student does have any felony or misdemeanor convictions, he/she is required to meet with Dr. Tom Wandzilak, Certification Officer, Student Services Center, 104 Henzlik Hall, 402-472-8626, as soon as possible. Students with questions pertaining to convictions should contact Dr. Wandzilak.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Teaching Option</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">College Integrative Courses 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRI 103/NRES 103 Introduction to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 431 Student Teaching <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 10) (Capstone Course) (P/NP only)</span> 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Mathematics and Statistics<span class="requirement-sec-1-italic"> (beyond college algebra)</span> 5-6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 106 Calculus I (5 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 102 Trigonometry (2 cr) or MATH 103 (If MATH 103 is taken, only 2 credit hours can be counted toward this requirement.) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MATH 104 Applied Calculus (3 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MATH 203 Contemporary Mathematics (3 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">and</span> STAT 218 Introduction to Statistics <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 3) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="requirement-ital"> </span>EDPS 459 Statistical Methods (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Communications 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Written Communication<span class="no-style-override-1"> (ACE 1)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="no-style-override-1"> </span>ENGL 150, ENGL 151, ENGL 254; JGEN 200, JGEN 300</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Oral Communication 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span>COMM 209 or COMM 286</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Communication/Interpersonal Skills: ALEC 102 <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Natural Sciences <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 4)</span> 12-13</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CASNR Approved Life Sciences 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><em>Select one course from:</em></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AGRO 131 &amp; AGRO 132 Plant Science &amp; Agronomic Plant Science Lab</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 109 General Botany</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 112 &amp; BIOS 112L Introduction to Zoology &amp; Lab</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 115 Insect Biology &amp; ENTO 116 Insect Identification</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">FDST 131 &amp; FDST 131L The Science of Food &amp; Lab</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HORT 131 &amp; HORT 133 Plant Science &amp; Horticultural Plant Science Lab</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L Fundamentals of Biology I (formerly BIOS 102)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 105 Chemistry in Context I 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> Students pursuing combined agriculture-biology endorsement must complete CHEM 109.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 141, PHYS 151, PHYS 211 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MSYM 109 4-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Economics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AECN 141 Introduction to the Economics of Agriculture <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 6)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Humanities and Social Sciences 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">EDPS 457 Learning &amp; Motivation Principles for Secondary Teaching or EDPS 362 Learning in the Classroom 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">SOCI 217 Nationality &amp; Race Relations <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> TEAC 330 Multicultural <br />Education <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 9)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Humanities and Social Sciences electives 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Select one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, and 8.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Agricultural and Natural Resource Sciences (Endorsement Area) 36</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">A minimum of 15 hours completed at the 200 level or above, and a minimum of 9 hours completed at the 300 level or above. Students must have a course in four CASNR departments or program areas. A course may be used to fulfill more than one category; however, the hours will only count once toward the 36-hour agricultural science requirement.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> No grades lower than “C” within the endorsement area.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Research and Applied Technology 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> AGRI 115, AGRO 315, AGRO 431, FDST 131</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Policy 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> AECN 265, AECN 276, AECN 346, AECN 376, NRES 323, POLS 235, POLS 236</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Management 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span>AECN 201, AECN 325, ASCI 250, ASCI 320, ASCI 330, ASCI 450, ASCI 451, ASCI 452, ASCI 453, ASCI 454, ASCI 455, ASCI 457, AGRO 204, AGRO 240, AGRO 405, HORT 325</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Production 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span>ASCI 100, ASCI 150, HORT 131 and HORT 133, HORT 159, HORT 221, HORT 325, HORT 327, HORT 350</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Natural Resources 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span>AECN 265, AGRO 153, AGRO 366, BIOS 232, ENTO 109, NRES 211, NRES 220, NRES 311</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Mechanized Systems <span class="requirement-ital">(courses available through SCC-Lincoln or SCC-Milford) </span>9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> Meet with your adviser to plan for your Mechanized Systems classes.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span>MSYM 245 (UNL), AUTT 1003, WELD 1060 &amp; 1070, WELD 1080 &amp; 1090, CNST 1100, CNST 1200</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Food System 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from</span><span class="no-style-override-1">:</span> AECN 225, ASCI 210, FDST 101 or FDST 131</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Leadership and Education (Professional Education Courses) 20</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> No grades lower than “C+” within professional education courses.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 134 Agricultural Education, Journalism, &amp; Leadership Careers 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 135 Early Field Experience in Agricultural Leadership, Education  &amp; Communication 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 234 Planning Leadership &amp; Experience Programs 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 308 Lab Instruction &amp; Management 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 405 Methods of Instruction for Secondary Agriscience Education 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 405L Methods of Instruction Laboratory Education 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 413 Program Development 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 494 Undergraduate Seminar in Agricultural Education 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">SPED 401B Accommodating Exceptional Learners in the Secondary School Classroom <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> SPED 434 Introduction to Special Vocational Needs 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Free Electives 3-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Minimum Credit Hours Required for Graduation 120</p>
<p class="title-1">Biology Endorsement Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">If the student desires to qualify for both an endorsement in agricultural education and a subject endorsement in biology, the following course work should be integrated into the teaching option.</p>
<p class="title-2">Supporting Laboratory Based Courses (12 hours)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Chemistry: CHEM 109 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Physics: PHYS 141, PHYS 151, PHYS 211 or MSYM 109 4-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Earth Science: AGRO 153/HORT 153/SOIL 153 Soil Resources 4</p>
<p class="title-2">Biology Courses (24 hours)</p>
<p class="basic-text">Select at least one of the suggested courses from each of the following categories. A course may be used more than once toward fulfilling the content requirement, however a minimum of 24 different hours is required. At least 12 hours must be taken at the 200 level or higher. Other course work may be negotiated with your academic adviser.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Botany</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">BIOS 109 General Botany 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">AGRO 131 &amp; AGRO 132 Plant Science &amp; Agronomic Lab 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">AGRO 204 Resource-Efficient Crop Management 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">AGRO 240/RNGE 240 Forage Crop &amp; Range Management 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">HORT 131 &amp; HORT 133 Plant Science &amp; Horticultural Plant Science Lab 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Cell Biology/Biochemistry</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L Fundamentals of Biology I &amp; Lab <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BIOC 321 &amp; BIOC 321L Elements of Biochemistry &amp; Lab 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Ecology</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">AGRI 103/NRES 103 Introduction to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">NRES 211 Introduction to Conservation Biology 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">NRES 311 Wildlife Ecology &amp; Management 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Evolution</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Genetics</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">AGRO 315 Genetics 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Human Biology</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L Human Physiology &amp; Lab 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Microbiology</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">FDST 372/NUTR 372 Food Safety &amp; Sanitation 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Zoology</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ASCI 240 Anatomy &amp; Physiology of Domestic Animals 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE: </span>To be eligible for the biology endorsement, a student must maintain a minimum grade point average of 2.75 in the above course work or its equivalency.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1 requirement-sec-1-override"><span class="no-style-override-2">Integrated Laboratory Management</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ALEC 308 Laboratory Instruction &amp; Management 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Science Methods Instruction</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TEAC 451V Learning &amp; Teaching Principles &amp; Practices 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TEAC 397 Professional Practicum Experience III parallel with TEAC 451V 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Student Teaching</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Students seeking a dual endorsement will be required to complete their student teaching experience in a school where they will spend teaching time in both biology and agriculture.</p>
<p class="title-1">Horticulture Education Endorsement Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">If the student desires to add a subject endorsement in horticulture education to their teaching certification, the following course work should be completed.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Horticulture Education (Grades 7-12) 33</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 400 Overview to Program Planning <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ALEC 413 Program Development 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">HORT 131/AGRO 131 Plant Science 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">HORT 133  Horticultural Plant Science Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">HORT 153/AGRO 153/SOIL 153 Soil Resources 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">HORT 212/LARC 212/NRES 212 Landscape Plants I <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> HORT 213/LARC 213/NRES 213 Landscape Plants II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">HORT 221 Plant Propagation 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">HORT 227/AGRO 227/PGAM 227/TLMT 227 Introductory Turfgrass Management 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">HORT 228/AGRO 228/PGAM 228/TLMT 228 Introduction to Landscape Management 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">HORT 261 Floral Design I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">HORT 325 Greenhouse Practices &amp; Management 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">HORT 395/AGRO 395/TLMT 395 Career Experience 3</p>
<p class="title-1">Skilled and Technical Sciences 2+2 Teaching Option</p>
<p class="basic-text">The following is a 2+2 program for students interested in obtaining certification in Skilled and Technical Sciences (STS). This certification will allow an individual to teach Skilled and Technical Sciences in a Nebraska secondary school (grades 7-12). Completion of the 60 credit hour requirement in the Skilled and Technical Sciences 2 + 2 Teaching Option at UNL, along with the completion of an associate of applied science within a post-secondary institution with a 2 + 2 agreement, will allow a student to complete a BS degree in agricultural education from UNL.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The program is an agreement between the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources (CASNR) and community college systems in Nebraska. The 2+2 program requires a student to complete the first two years at a community college and earn an associate of applied science degree before transferring to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln (UNL).</p>
<p class="basic-text">The transfer policy in CASNR will be in effect for all students interested in the STS 2+2 program. This 2+2 program is for the STS teaching program and will be the only program available for students to become certified at UNL. Students transferring into other UNL programs other than the STS program must follow the requirements set forth through the departments within the specific colleges.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The prerequisite for entry into the STS certification program at UNL is the completion of the Skilled and Technical Sciences Program at a community college with a 2 + 2 Skilled and Technical Sciences Agreement. Students who transfer into UNL from other programs within the community college system will not be eligible for entry into the 2+2 program in STS at UNL.</p>
<p class="basic-text">To be admitted into the student teaching program candidates must have: 1) a minimum scholastic grade point average of 2.75 including no grades lower than “C” within the endorsement area, and no grades lower than “C+” within professional education courses; 2) passing scores within the Pre-Professional Skills Test (PPST); 3) 1,000 hours of verified work experience within the Skilled and Technical Sciences (STS) career cluster, or 300 hours of supervised employment in the STS career cluster under the direction of a UNL academic unit; and 4) three written letters of recommendation; one of which must be a character reference. Student Teaching (ALEC 431) is available as Pass/No Pass only. Meet with your adviser to plan for your student teaching experience.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Teaching Certificate.</span> Successful completion of the teaching endorsement requirements, along with a recommendation by the Department of Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication, warrants recommendation for a Nebraska Secondary Teaching Certificate by the Department of Education, with an endorsement to teach skilled and technical sciences (7-12).</p>
<p class="title-2">STS Teaching Option</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who meet entry requirements in the STS Teaching Option will have completed a variety of course work from their community college. Many of the courses within the community college system have direct equivalencies with our ACE program at UNL. Following a comprehensive transfer analysis, students will be provided an accurate degree audit of the remaining ACE courses needed at UNL along with the professional program in Agricultural Education. The minimum requirements of CASNR reflect the common core of courses that apply to students pursuing degrees in the college. Students should work with an adviser to satisfy ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, and 10 requirements. ACE requirements 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 9 will be completed through their academic programs within the community college system since it is a requirement for an associate of applied science degree at their institutions.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">ACE Requirements 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Students should work with an adviser to select one course each in ACE outcomes 5, 7, and 8.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Leadership and Education (Professional Education Courses) 42</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> No grades lower than “C+” within professional education courses.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 135 Early Field Experience in Agricultural Leadership, Education  &amp; Communication 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 308 Lab Instruction &amp; Management 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 405 Methods of Instruction for Secondary Agriscience Education 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 405L Methods of Instruction Lab Education 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 413 Program Development 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 424 Foundations of Career &amp; Technical Education 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 431 Student Teaching <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 10)</span> 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 494 Undergraduate Seminar in Agricultural Education 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 496 Independent Study in Leadership Education (SkillsUSA/PDP) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">EDPS 209 Strategies for Academic Success 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">EDPS 457 Learning and Motivation Principles for Secondary Teaching <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> EDPS 362 Learning in the Classroom 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">SPED 401B Accommodating Exceptional Learners in the Secondary School Classroom <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> SPED 434 Introduction to Special Vocational Needs 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">TEAC 259 Instructional Technology 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Free Electives 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Program Credit Requirements 51</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">STS Credit Requirements for BS Degree in Agricultural Education 60</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Maximum Credits for Transfer into UNL 60</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Minimum Credit Hours Required for Graduation 120</p>
<p class="title-1">Agricultural Leadership Option</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Agricultural Leadership Option is recommended for those interested in pursuing a career in the agricultural industry in the areas of leadership development, commodity board advocacy, executive development, youth and leadership development, extension, consulting/training, organizational development, human resources, public policy, rural and community development.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">College Integrative Courses 8</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRI 103/NRES 103 Introduction to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 495A Internship in Leadership Development <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 10) (Capstone Course)</span> 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Mathematics and Statistics <span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">(beyond college algebra)</span> 5-6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 106 Calculus I (5 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 102 Trigonometry (2 cr) or MATH 103 (If MATH 103 is taken, only 2 credit hours can be counted toward this requirement.) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MATH 104 Applied Calculus (3 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MATH 203 Contemporary Mathematics (3 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">and</span> STAT 218 Introduction to Statistics <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 3) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="requirement-ital"> </span>EDPS 459 Statistical Methods (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Communications 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Written Communication 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> ENGL 150, ENGL 151, ENGL 254; JGEN 200, JGEN 300<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 1)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Oral Communication 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> COMM 209 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> COMM 286</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Communication/Interpersonal Skills: ALEC 102 <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Natural Sciences 8-9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 2 of 3 Natural Sciences courses (ACE 4)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CASNR Approved Life Sciences (4 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 105 Chemistry in Context I <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 4)</span> (4 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 109 General Chemistry (4 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHYS 141 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> PHYS 151 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MSYM 109 (4-5 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Economics, Humanities and Social Sciences 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 211 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ECON 212 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> AECN 141 <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 6)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Courses 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Select one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, and 9.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Minor 12-20</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> An approved minor in the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources other than the leadership and communication or leadership and entrepreneurship minor is required or the Hospitality, Restaurant and Tourism Management minor or the Child, Youth &amp; Family Studies minor offered throught the College of Education and Human Sciences.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Major Requirements 33</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 134 Agricultural Education, Journalism, &amp; Leadership Careers 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 202 Leadership Development in Small Groups &amp; Teams 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 302 Dynamics of Effective Leadership in Organizations 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 305 Presentation Strategies for Agricultural Audiences 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 388/AECN 388 Ethics in Agriculture &amp; Natural Resources 3<em> (ACE 8)</em></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 407 Supervisory Leadership 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 410/NRES 413 Environmental Leadership 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 414 Classic Figures in Leadership 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 466 Leadership &amp; Diversity in Organizations &amp; Communities 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 477 Leadership &amp; Motivation 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 428/NRES 428 Leadership in Public Organizations 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 494 Undergraduate Seminar in Agricultural Education 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Free Electives 23-33</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Must include one CASNR 3-credit 200-level or higher course from a department other than ALEC or the minor department.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Minimum Credit Hours Required for Graduation 120</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in the teaching option of Agricultural Education need to be aware that CASNR has a 24-credit hour limitation established by the Faculty Senate. Please plan accordingly and review your status with your academic adviser every academic term.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="title-1"><span class="requirement-ital"></span></p>
<p class="title-1">Leadership and Communication Minor</p>
<p class="basic-text">An 18-hour minor in leadership and communication is available through the Department of Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication. Combining a leadership and communication minor with any CASNR degree strengthens students’ “employability” base by making them competent technical professionals who are also strong leaders and effective communicators. The 18-hour minor is comprised of upper and lower division courses as follows:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Complete at least three courses from the following list 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 102 Interpersonal Skills for Leadership (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 202 Leadership Development in Small Groups &amp; Teams (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 302 Dynamics of Effective Leadership in Organizations (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 305 Presentation Strategies for Agricultural Audiences (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">The remaining courses are selected from the following list 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">*ALEC 337 Instructional Internship in Leadership Development (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 388/AECN 388 Ethics in Agriculture &amp; Natural Resources (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 407 Supervisory Leadership (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 410/NRES 413 Environmental Leadership (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 414 Classic Figures in Leadership (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 466 Leadership &amp; Diversity in Organizations &amp; Communities (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 477 Leadership &amp; Motivation (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">**ALEC 480 Dynamics of Agricultural Environmental Journalism (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">***AERO 331 Air Force Leadership Studies I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">***AERO 332 Air Force Leadership Studies II (3 cr)</p>
<p class="asterisk">* For students having completed ALEC 102 and who have been selected as teaching assistants.</p>
<p class="asterisk">** Open to students enrolled in the agricultural journalism major only.</p>
<p class="asterisk">*** May be substituted for Air Force ROTC students only.</p>
<p class="title-1">Leadership and Entrepreneurship Minor</p>
<p class="basic-text">An 18-hour minor in leadership and entrepreneurship is available through a joint program offered by the Departments of Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication and the Engler Agribusiness Entrepreneurship Program. This minor is intended for those who are interested in gaining additional professional skills in leadership and entrepreneurship. The 18-hour minor is comprised of theory based and applied courses as well as a final capstone course.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Leadership Courses 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one theory-based course from the following:</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 202 Leadership Development in Small Groups &amp; Teams (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 302 Dynamics of Effective Leadership in Organizations (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 477 Leadership &amp; Motivation (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 488 Leadership, Power, &amp; Influence (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one application course from the following:</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 407 Supervisory Leadership (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">*ALEC 410/NRES 413 Environmental Leadership (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">*ALEC 466 Leadership &amp; Diversity in Organizations &amp; Communities (3 cr)</p>

<p class="asterisk">* Note that Junior standing is required for these two courses.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Entrepreneurship Courses 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one foundational course from the following:</span> 3-4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">EAEP 101 Introductory Seminar on Opportunities in Entrepreneurship (1 cr) &amp; EAEP 388/AGRO 388/HORT 388/ENTR 388 Agribusiness Entrepreneurship (3 cr), <span class="requirement-bold">or</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-bold"></span></p>

<p class="requirement-sec-3"> MNGT 121/ENTR 121 Introduction to Entrepreneurial Management (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one application course from the following:</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AECN 275/AGRO 275/EAEP 275/ENTR 275/HORT 275 Agribusiness Entrepreneurial Finance (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">EAEP 488/AGRO 488/ENTR 488/HORT 488 Business Management for Agricultural Enterprises (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTR 321/MNGT 321 Entrepreneurship &amp; Innovation in Organizations (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTR 421/MNGT 421 Initiating &amp; Managing Entrepreneurial Growth (3 cr)</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-3">EAEP 225/AECN 225/MRKT 225 Agribusiness Entrepreneurship in Food Products Marketing (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Experiential Learning in Leadership and/or Entrepreneurship</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from the following:</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AGRI 310 Study Tours in International Agriculture (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 102 Interpersonal Skills for Leadership <span class="requirement-ital">(with 20-hour service learning project)</span> (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 153 Chancellor’s Leadership Class (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 165 Pepsi Service Scholars (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 337 Instructional Internship in Leadership Development <span class="requirement-ital">(credit received for being a Teaching Assistant)</span> (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital"></span></p>

<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTR 322/MNGT 322 Family Business  (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTR 422A/MNGT 422A/822A Small Business Owner or ENTR 422/MNGT 422 Managing Rapid Growth &amp; Change in Organizations (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-bold"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MNGT 423/ENTR 423 Business Plan Development &amp; Decision Making (3 cr)</p>


<p class="requirement-sec-1">Internship in Leadership and/or Entrepreneurship 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 496 Independent Study in Leadership Education (Field Experience) (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">EAEP 395 Agribusiness Entrepreneurship Internship (3 cr)</p>

<p class="header-paragraph">Students who wish to minor in Leadership and Communication must first meet with a Department of Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication (ALEC) faculty member from the leadership program. Students who wish to minor in Leadership and Entrepreneurship must meet with either an ALEC or Engler Agribusiness Entrepreneurship Program faculty member. A completed Declaration of Minor form, filled out with the assistance of the faculty member, should be signed by the student’s academic adviser and turned into the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Dean’s office.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>