<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Agribusiness (CBA)</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="agribusiness-cba-">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Agribusiness (CBA)</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Agribusiness (CBA)</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 hours for degree (31 hours for the major)</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.5 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: TBA</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">UNL’s agribusiness program is nationally recognized for its innovation and quality. The program is designed to meet the agribusiness industry’s needs for professionals and entrepreneurs who have the educational background to become successful decision-makers in the rapidly changing agribusiness world. Agribusiness students interact with agribusiness professionals through learning and work-related opportunities, both in and out of the classroom. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Majoring in the agribusiness program prepares students for many agribusiness careers, such as:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Agribusiness Management</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Finance and Lending</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Real Estate Management and Investment</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Commodity Trade and Analysis</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Grain Merchandising</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Market Planning and Analysis</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">International Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Entrepreneurship and New Business Development</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Sales Management</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Information Technology and Analysis</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Production Management</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Food Marketing and Industry Organization</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The agribusiness major also prepares students for graduate study in agribusiness, business administration, and agricultural economics.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The agribusiness major is a joint program between the College of Business Administration and the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources. It prepares students for careers in this dynamic and constantly changing field. It is the first program of this kind in the U.S. and is designed to meet the agribusiness industry’s need for employees with training in both business and agriculture.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Agribusiness majors take a blend of courses in business and agriculture that gives the student a balance between the decision-making framework of business and the technical aspects of modern agriculture and food systems. This means emphasis is placed on business and agriculture, making it an attractive degree for agribusiness employers and a very marketable degree for agribusiness students. The program also allows the student to build expertise in their area of interest by taking College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources courses in a specific area.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Major/Department Admission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University Admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">As noted in the College Degree Requirements section, all course work for the major must be taken for a grade.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Agribusiness majors may elect to fulfill the Business Core Intermediate (BCI) requirement of MNGT 350/MIST 350 with MRKT 350.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students interested in agronomy or chemical sales are recommended to take CHEM 109.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Agribusiness majors through the College of Business Administration may </span><span class="basic-text-bold">not</span><span class="generated-style"> count AECN 141 Introduction to the Economics of Agriculture toward the degree unless transferring in from another college.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Double counting options: There are several agriculture courses offered through the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources that may be used to fulfill both requirements for Non-Business Requirements (NBR) for the College as well as for the agribusiness major:</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">NBR 3 (ACE 4) – AGRI 115, AGRO 131, ENTO 115, MSYM 109, NRES 108, PLPT 110 may be taken to fulfill the science requirement (NBR 3–ACE 4) as well as a requirement for the major. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">NBR 6 (ACE 9) – AECN 346, AECN 367, AECN 420, AECN 425, AGRI 282, ENSC 110, HORT 200, may be taken to fulfill the global awareness requirement (NBR 6–ACE 9) as well as a requirement for the major. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">In instances where double counting occurs, course work selected for the first major that is also double counted for NBR may not, in turn, also be used to satisfy the College </span><span class="basic-text-bold">electives</span><span class="generated-style"> of 300/400-level requirement nor may NBR course work double counting for the major be double counted for any minor in which these courses could be used to fulfill minor requirements. In other words, students may choose to have the NBR approved course work double count for the first major </span><span class="basic-text-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> minor (not both) and only in the instance of the double count with the minor may the hours also count for the 300/400-level College electives.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">18 hours of the 24 hours required in production, non-production, and elective hours must be taken at the 200 level or above.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Most course work for the major is offered out of the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources (CASNR).</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 31 hours of course work for the major.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">AECN 201 Farm &amp; Ranch Management (4 hours)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 225 Agribusiness Entrepreneurship in Food Products Marketing </span><span class="basic-text-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> MRKT 325 Marketing of Agricultural Commodities (3 hours each)</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Minimum of 6 hours of </span><span class="basic-text-bold">PRODUCTION</span><span class="generated-style"> course work from the following departments:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Agriculture (AGRI) </span><span class="list-ital">(not AGRI 042) (May opt to take AGRI 115 to fulfill both ACE 4 and major; and/or AGRI 282 to fulfill both ACE 9 and major.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Agronomy (AGRO) </span><span class="list-ital">(May opt to take AGRO 131 to fulfill both ACE 4 and major.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Animal Science (ASCI)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Energy Science (ENSC) </span><span class="list-ital">(May opt to take ENSC 110 to fulfill both ACE 9 and major.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Entomology (ENTO) </span><span class="list-ital">(May opt to take ENTO 115 to fulfill both ACE 4 and major.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Food Science &amp; Technology (FDST)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Horticulture (HORT) </span><span class="list-ital">(May opt to take HORT 200 to fulfill both ACE 9 and major.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Mechanical Systems Management (MSYM) </span><span class="list-ital">(May opt to take MSYM 109 to fulfill both ACE 4 and major.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Natural Resources &amp; Environmental Economics (NRES) </span><span class="list-ital">(May opt to take NRES 108 to fulfill both ACE 4 and major.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Plant Pathology (PLPT) </span><span class="list-ital">(May opt to take PLPT 110 to fulfill both ACE 4 and major.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences (VBMS)</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">MINIMUM of 9 hours of </span><span class="basic-text-bold">NON-PRODUCTION</span><span class="generated-style"> course work from the following departments:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Agricultural Economics (AECN) </span><span class="list-ital">(May opt to take AECN 346, AECN 367, AECN 420, AECN 425 to fulfill both ACE 9 and major.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Agricultural Education (ALEC)</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The following courses </span><span class="basic-text-bold">may not</span><span class="generated-style"> be selected to fulfill this requirement: AECN 141, AECN 201, AECN 225/EAEP 225/MRKT 225, AECN 325/MRKT 325 (depending on which one was selected for above requirement).</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">MINIMUM of 9 hours of </span><span class="basic-text-bold">ELECTIVE</span><span class="generated-style"> course work beyond those selected for any of the above may be selected from the following College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources departments:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Agricultural Economics (AECN) </span><span class="list-ital">(not AECN 141, AECN 201) (May opt to take AECN 346, AECN 367, AECN 420, AECN 425 to fulfill both ACE 9 and major.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Agriculture (AGRI) </span><span class="list-ital">(not AGRI 042) (May opt to take AGRI 115 to fulfill both ACE 4 and major or AGRI 282 to fulfill both ACE 9 and major.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Agricultural Education</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Agronomy (AGRO) </span><span class="list-ital">(May opt to take AGRO 131 for ACE 4 and major.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Animal Science (ASCI)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Biochemistry (BIOC)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Energy Science (ENSC) </span><span class="list-ital">(May opt to take ENSC 110 to fulfill both ACE 9 and major.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Entomology (ENTO) </span><span class="list-ital">(May opt to take ENTO 115 to fulfill both ACE 4 and major.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Food Science and Technology (FDST)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Horticulture (HORT) </span><span class="list-ital">(May opt to take HORT 200 to fulfill both ACE 9 and major.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Mechanized Systems Management (MSYM) </span><span class="list-ital">(May opt to take MSYM 109 to fulfill both ACE 4 and major.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Natural Resources and Environmental Economics (NRES) </span><span class="list-ital">(May opt to take NRES 108 to fulfill both ACE 4 and major.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Plant Pathology (PLPT) </span><span class="list-ital">(May opt to take PLPT 110 to fulfill ACE 4 and major.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Range (RNGE)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">SOIL (SOIL)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences (VBMS)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Water Science (WATS)</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Eighteen of the 24 hours (6 hours production, 9 hours non-production, and 9 hours College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources electives) must be completed at the 200 level or above. Courses and descriptions appear under the individual departmental majors.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students should consult with their adviser for the appropriate selection of courses.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">C- and D Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College grade rules.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College Pass/No Pass limits.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College GPA requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The program requires and enforces that specific prerequisite requirements be completed by the first class meeting. Concurrent registration in a class that is a prerequisite for another class is NOT allowed. Transfer credit assumes that the prerequisites have been transferred to UNL and appear on the transcript.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">For the International Business Course Requirement (IBCR), most agribusiness majors will take MRKT 453 (providing 6 hours of marketing are done), counting it to fulfill both the IBCR and one of the 300/400-level requirements for the college ELECTIVES requirement. However, for students interested in other areas, the other IBCR courses will work as well.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students should refer to the Non-Business Requirement (NBR) section for options to complete course work to double count for NBR 3–ACE 4 and/or NBR 6–ACE 9 requirements as well as course work for the major. Please work closely with an adviser.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">12 hours of ELECTIVES for the College (beyond the major) must be done at 300/400-level.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">If course work for the agribusiness major (BCA-M) </span><span class="basic-text-bold">exceeds</span><span class="generated-style"> 21 hours at the 300/400-level, a student may appeal (see the agribusiness adviser in CBA 310) to double count the additional hours toward the 300/400-level requirement.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">This double counting option will work as long as these hours have not already been double counted as part of the major and NBR requirements.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">60 hours of business course work must be completed for the degree. Given the unique nature of the agribusiness major and program, required course work for the degree, as well as course work for the major, is considered to be ‘business’ related and thus counted toward meeting this college requirement.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">In all instances of ‘double counting,’ the course will count for 3 hours of credit. Students must still meet the minimum 120 hour requirement of course work to graduate.</span></li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
