<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Anthropology 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="anthropology-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Anthropology</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts & Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Anthropology</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Martha McCollough</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: LuAnn Wandsnider</span>, 810 Oldfather Hall</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor:</span> Hames, Wandsnider</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Athanassopoulos, Awakuni-Swetland, McCollough, Willis</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span> Osborne</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturers:</span> Beyene, Douglass, Hammerl</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Adjunct Faculty:</span> Bozell, Connor, Hunt, Hartley, Leite, Lynott</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Undergraduate Advisor:</span> Dr. Martha McCollough, 402-472-2441, mmccollough1@unl.edu</p>
<p class="basic-text">Courses in anthropology are designed to acquaint the student with the range of human behavior and emphasize archaeology, physical anthropology, cultural anthropology, applied anthropology, and Omaha language and culture.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Department of Anthropology participates in the programs in African American and African Studies, Asian Studies, Ethnic Studies, Environmental Studies, Great Plains Studies, Global Studies, Latino and Latin American Studies, Native American Studies, and Women’s and Gender Studies.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Recommendations.</span> Because of the broad and interdisciplinary nature of anthropology, we recommend that majors select additional courses outside the department to enhance their appreciation of and improve their skills in related disciplines. The student’s adviser will make specific course recommendations in keeping with individual needs and interests.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> The Department of Anthropology offers graduate work leading to the master of arts degree. A description of the program appears in the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Graduate Advisor:</span> Dr. Effie Athanassopoulos, 402-472-0172, eathanassopoulos1@unl.edu</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Anthropology (33 hours)</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Foundation Courses 10</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ANTH 212 Introduction to Cultural Anthropology 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ANTH 232 Introduction to Prehistory 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ANTH 242 &amp; ANTH 242L Introduction to Physical Anthropology &amp; Lab 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Advanced Anthropology Courses 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Archaeology 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 431 Historical Archaeology: Current Topics (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 432 History &amp; Theory of Archaeology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 433 North American Archaeology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 438 Topics in Old World Prehistory (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Biological Anthropology 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 422 Medical Anthropology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 442 Human Variation (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 430 Nutritional Anthropology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 448 Human Growth &amp; Development (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Cultural Anthropology 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 412 Social Structure (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 417 History of Anthropological Theory (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 473 Ecological Anthropology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 474 Applied &amp; Development Anthropology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 477 Hunters-Gatherers (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Research Methods 3-4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 290 Fieldwork (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 482 Research Methods in Anthropology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 484 Quantitative Methods in Anthropology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 486 Community-Based Research &amp; Evaluation (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 487A-E Analysis of Archaeological Materials (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 490 Advanced Field Work (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 491 Landscape Archaeology (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Electives from 9-10</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from</span>: 100-, 200-, 300-, or 400- series</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Fieldwork is recommended.</span> Only 6 credits total of ANTH 290 and ANTH 490 may count toward the major. Only 3 credits of ANTH 291 or ANTH 491 may count toward the major. ANTH 104A, ANTH 105A, ANTH 204A, ANTH 205A, ANTH 210, and ANTH 210A cannot be applied toward the anthropology major.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its program, majors will, as they complete an ACE 10 course in their junior or senior year:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Participate in a focus group discussion of programmatic strengths and weaknesses.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Complete an exit survey, submitted anonymously.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Results of participation in these assessment activities will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> Students contemplating graduate work should work closely with adviser to design course of study.</p>
<p class="title-1">Minor Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">A minor may be chosen from any minor offered by the College of Arts and Sciences.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">No course may be taken Pass/No Pass.</p>
<p class="title-1">Course Level Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">At least 12 hours in courses numbered in the 300 and 400 series. May be satisfied by advanced anthropology courses or electives.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="basic-text">Requires 18 hours of anthropology including ANTH 110; at least one of the 200-level core courses in anthropology (ANTH 212 Introduction to Cultural Anthropology, ANTH 232 Introduction to Archaeology, or ANTH 242 Introduction to Physical Anthropology); and, at least one 300- or 400-level anthropology course. Up to 6 hours of field study (ANTH 290, ANTH 291, ANTH 490, ANTH 491) and 6 hours of advanced Native language (ANTH 204, ANTH 205, ANTH 210) courses may apply. Excluded courses: ANTH 104, ANTH 105, ANTH 130.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>