<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Arabic Minor 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="arabic-minor-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Arabic Minor</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Arabic Minor</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 12</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Abla Hasan</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Evelyn Jacobson</span>, 1111 Oldfather Hall</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Vice Chair:</span> Radha Balasubramanian</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Carr, Hayden-Roy, E. Jacobson, Pereira, Stump</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Balasubramanian, Brantner, González, González-Allende, Guevara, Kalisa, Lorenzo, Mejias-Bikandi, Saskova-Pierce, Shirer</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Amano, Enkin, Hasan, Kingsbury-Brunetto, Peterson, Velázquez</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Emeriti Professors:</span> Fouletier-Smith, M. Jacobson, Martinez, Nickel, Turner, Wilhelmsen</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Department of Modern Languages and Literatures offers courses in Arabic, German, Japanese, the Romance Language group (French, Spanish), and the Slavic group (Czech, Russian). Whenever possible, the courses are conducted in the language that is studied. The aim of instruction is reading, writing, aural and oral proficiency, and an understanding of the life, literature, and culture of the country. Lectures and films in the language studied are offered during the school year for the benefit of the students in the department. Language laboratories supplement class work.</p>
<p class="title-1">Placement</p>
<p class="basic-text">Incoming students who wish to enter the University’s language program in French, Spanish, and German are required to take the Computer Assisted Placement Examination (CAPE). The results of the placement exam, together with training in a secondary school university, or other prior second language environments, will assist students in finding the level at which they will have the greatest opportunity for success. The examination results will be used in combination with advising to determine appropriate placement in the sequence of courses offered within the department’s curriculum. CAPE is administered in the language laboratory (302 Burnett Hall). Those students exempted from this requirement are expected to enroll in a first semester elementary course (101). Students qualifying for this exemption are defined as follows:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">1. Students with no previous second language exposure whatsoever.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">2. Students whose second language exposure amounts to one year or less at the U.S. high school level.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">3. Students who wish to begin study of a new language other than those previously studied.</p>
<p class="basic-text">For other languages, placement is generally determined by the following criteria for students who come to the University with:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">1. 1 semester of a language in high school should take 101 (same language or a new one);</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">2. 2 or 3 semesters in high school should take 102 (same language);</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">3. 4 or 5 semesters in high school should take 201;</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">4. 6 semesters in high school should take 202;</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">5. 8 semesters or more in high school should take 203.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The department participates in the following interdisciplinary study programs: Institute for Ethnic Studies, Global Studies, Jewish Studies, Latin American Studies, Medieval and Renaissance Studies, and Women’s and Gender Studies.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may receive full credit at the University of Nebraska for education abroad programs in many countries, among these are Costa Rica, France, Germany, Spain, Russia, Japan, and the Czech Republic. See http://educationabroad.unl.edu for a guide to these programs.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Auditing.</span> Audits are allowed in 101 in French, German and Spanish only upon recommendation of the Modern Language Placement Advisers. Otherwise no audits are allowed in 100- and 200-level classes.</p>
<p class="title-1">Literature in Translation</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Department offers the following literature in translation courses for which no knowledge of a foreign language is necessary. Check the Schedule of Classes to determine which are being taught in any given semester: </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MODL 234D Major Themes in World Literature</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MODL 298, MODL 398 Special Topics</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">FREN 282 and GERM 282 Literature in Translation</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"> SPAN 264 and SPAN 265 Spanish-American Literature in Translation I &amp; II</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MODL 442/GERM 442/842 Survey of Medieval German Literature in Translation</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JAPN 331 Introduction to Japanese Film</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JAPN 483 Japanese Literature in Translation</p>
<p class="basic-text">RUSS 482 and RUSS 483 Russian Literature in Translation I &amp; II</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> The advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy are offered in French, German, and Spanish. For details, see the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</p>
<p><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>

<p class="requirement-bold">12 hours of courses numbered 300 or above:</p>
<ul>
<li><span style="color: #333333;">6 hours from 300 level ARAB courses.</span></li>
<li><span style="color: #333333;">6 additional hours. These 3 hours may be from 300 or above course in a related area in a different department as approved by the undergraduate advisor. Any 300 or above course or independent study course in a related topic can count if approved by the undergraduate advisor.</span></li>
</ul>
<p class="requirement-bold">Specific courses in other departments that may be used to fulfill this requirement are:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HIST 434/834 Palestine &amp; the Arab-Israeli Conflict (JUDS 434)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MODL 300 or above course as approved by the undergraduate advisor</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">POLS 477/877 Israel &amp; the Middle East (JUDS 477)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">RELG 318 Islam in the Modern World</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">WMNS 408/808 Cross-cultural Mentoring I (ANTH 408/NUTR 408) <span class="requirement-ital">(</span><span class="requirement-ital">cases should be from an Arabic background)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"> WMNS 409/809 Cross-cultural Mentoring II (ANTH 409/NUTR 409)</p>

            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>