<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Architectural Engineering (Omaha) 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="architectural-engineering-omaha-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Architectural Engineering (Omaha)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Architectural Engineering (Omaha)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 128</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.5 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Christine Warren</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="title-1">Durham School of Architectural Engineering and Construction</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">School Director: Eddy M. Rojas</span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Coordinator:</span> Ece Erdogmus</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Goedert, Merkel, Wang, Waters</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Alahmad, Erdogmus, Li, Morcous, Schwer, Tiller</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Lau,  Norton, Pedersen, Yu</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website: </span>http://engineering.unl.edu/durhamschool/academics/ArchitecturalEngineering.shtml</p>
<p class="basic-text">Architectural Engineering (AE) is a program of the Charles W. Durham School of Architectural Engineering and Construction. This degree program can only be completed on the Omaha campus. The AE undergraduate program is a four-year program requiring 128 credit hours. A one-year master of architectural engineering (MAE) program of 36 credits is also offered.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The educational objective of the program is to produce graduates who:</p>
<ul>
<li class="bullet-1">Practice architectural<ins class="ins cts-1" title="Inserted by Christine Warren - 01/23/2014 11:35am" data-cid="68" data-userid="907" data-username="Christine Warren" data-time="1390498520644"> engineering as licensed professionals in the following areas of building design:</ins></li>
<ul>
<li class="bullet-1"><span class="bullet-2">building</span> structural systems</li>
<li class="bullet-1"><span class="bullet-2">building</span> mechanical systems</li>
<li class="bullet-1"><span class="bullet-2">building</span> acoustics</li>
<li class="bullet-1"><span class="bullet-2">building</span> lighting systems</li>
<li class="bullet-1"><span class="bullet-2">building</span> electrical systems</li>
</ul>
<li class="bullet-1">Apply the fundamental principles of science, engineering, and mathematics to the analysis of architectural engineering problems</li>
<li class="bullet-1">Design solutions to architectural engineering problems under realistic condeitions that include:</li>
<ul>
<li class="bullet-1"><span class="bullet-2">identifying</span> relevant issues</li>
<li class="bullet-1"><span class="bullet-2">formulating</span> solutions</li>
<li class="bullet-1"><span class="bullet-2">evaluating</span> and selecting a solution</li>
<li class="bullet-1"><span class="bullet-2">communicating</span> the final design</li>
</ul>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">Architectural engineering (AE) is the engineering design of buildings. Students will have the option to specialize in either the design of building structural systems, building mechanical systems and acoustics or building lighting and electrical systems. The first three years are common to all three fields of specialization, and include the same math and science courses common to all engineering programs. Students will take an introductory course in AE in their first semester. This course exposes the students to the materials and systems that make up a modern building. It will also provide a preview of the work they can expect to do after graduation. This first AE course helps the student to decide if this is the career path he/she wishes to pursue.</p>
<p class="basic-text">In the second semester, the AE student begins the first of a four-course sequence of courses in architecture. The purpose of these courses is to familiarize the engineering student with the thought and design process of architects and to develop an appreciation of the architectural features of buildings. This exposure to architecture is an important part of the student’s education. It develops creativity and gives the AE graduates a unique ability to work effectively with their professional colleagues in architecture.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The intent of the AE program is to develop both breadth and depth. This is done by requiring the students to have a good understanding of all the systems that make up a building while also giving them a specialized education in their chosen option areas. The breadth is provided in the 5th and 6th semesters, with all students taking courses in each of the three areas of specialization. The depth is provided in the 7th and 8th semesters, as the program splits into the three option areas.</p>
<p class="basic-text">A one-year master of architectural engineering degree follows the four-year undergraduate program. This fifth year continues the specialized education in each of the three option areas, and provides an introduction to some of the professional practice topics that architectural engineers will need later in their careers.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The year of the AE program features a MAE design project. The project requires the student to practice all the design skills and understanding of building systems developed throughout the program. Students in teams will complete a significant building design in a manner that closely simulates professional practice. Industry and faculty members will serve as consultants to the students.</p>
<p><span class="basic-text">Architectural </span>E<span class="basic-text">ngineering is accredited by the EAC-ABET, Inc.</span><span class="basic-text"> </span><span class="basic-text">The accreditation is attached to the one<ins class="ins cts-2" title="Inserted by Judy Anderson - 02/3/2014 6:06pm" data-cid="15" data-userid="1138" data-username="Judy Anderson" data-time="1391472388142">-</span>y<span class="basic-text">ear master of architectural engineering degree</span>.</ins></p>
<div style="left: 10px; top: 10px; width: 1px; height: 1px; overflow: hidden; padding-left: 30px; position: fixed;"></div>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR DEPARTMENT ADMISSION</p>
<p><span style="color: #333333;"><span class="basic-text">S</span><span class="basic-text">tudents must complete at least 42 credit hours in the AE program before applying for admission to the degree program in AE. </span><span class="basic-text">Transfer students must have all transfer hours accepted before applying for admission. </span><span class="basic-text">The number admitted will depend on the availability of space, faculty, and other academic resources. </span><span class="basic-text">Admission will be based on academic performance in a set of 42 credit hours of courses taken in the AE program. </span><span class="basic-text">Students will not be permitted to register for more than 61 credit hours of courses listed in the AE curriculum until they have been accepted into the degree program in AE</span>.</span></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-2">Please visit our website for the latest information on the Architectural Engineering requirements for the bachelor of science program. http://engineering.unl.edu/durhamschool/academics/ArchitecturalEngineering.shtml</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="basic-text">Because of rapid technical developments, the AE curriculum will be continually reviewed and upgraded. Currently enrolled students are expected to modify their programs to take advantage of such revisions. Students who do not maintain continuous progress toward the degree through enrollment in applicable course work will be considered as new students upon re-entering the program and will be subject to the requirements of the undergraduate catalog current at the time of their re-entry.</p>
<p class="basic-text">AE students must pass any course offered by the AE program (those with an AE or CIVE prefix) with a grade of “C-” or higher to obtain credit toward graduation for that course. All courses that are prerequisites for AE or CE courses must be passed with a grade of “C-” or higher to obtain entry into the subsequent course.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The AE program follows the UNL ACE general education requirements. Because of the specific needs of the program, most of these courses are specified in the curriculum.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Please contact Christine Warren, student services coordinator, at cwarren2@unl.edu or 402-554-3918, if you are interested in more information about this program.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>