<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Architecture 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="architecture-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Architecture</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Architecture</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Architecture</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> The professional program in architecture consists of two components: the three-year Bachelor of Science in Design (BSD-Architecture) and the subsequent two-year Master of Architecture (MArch).</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 for BSD; 58 additional for the MArch</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Leslie Gonzalez &amp; Stephanie Kuenning (pre-architecture); assigned faculty (architecture)</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Director:</span><span class="no-style-override"> Jeffrey Day,</span> 232 Architecture Hall</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="no-style-override"> </span>Day, Drummond (dean emeritus), Handa, Hoistad, Kuska, Laging, Scholz</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Ford, Hardy, Hemsath, Hind, Krug</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Karle, Kelly, Olshavsky</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors Emeritus:</span> Borner, Corkill, Duncan, Ertl, Gibbs, Moore, Potter, Puderbaugh, Sawyers, Steward (dean emeritus)</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chief Advisers:</span> Pre-Architecture: Leslie Brehm (lbrehm2@unl.edu) and Stephanie Kuenning (skuenning2@unl.edu); Architecture: Assigned faculty</p>
<p class="basic-text">The primary responsibility of the architectural profession is the design of meaningful, productive environments for human occupation and use. Architects, therefore, must be able to understand the needs and desires of the people who will inhabit and use their creations and then effectively synthesize the complex structural, mechanical, constructional components, and cultural references that go into the design of a building. As designers, they must possess creative and aesthetic skills as well as technical knowledge, collaborative ability, and problem-solving agility.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The architecture program seeks to increase students’ desire to learn and to develop a capacity for design-thinking and sound, critical judgment while simultaneously developing their creative potential. Specifically, the curriculum provides the background and means for the student to:</p>
<p class="list">1. Analyze and understand society’s needs and desires,</p>
<p class="list">2. Translate these needs and desires into a physical form and spatial organization,</p>
<p class="list">3. Contribute creatively to the building construction industry,</p>
<p class="list">4. Search out new problems and contribute to environmental knowledge through design-research,</p>
<p class="list">5. Initiate and review developments in technology and society, and</p>
<p class="list">6. Participate in the community that makes decisions affecting the physical environment.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Architecture is a six-year course of study divided into a pre-professional common first year (d.ONE) and a professional program of study. Students choosing to study architecture first enter the College as majors in pre-architecture. After completing a one year introductory design curriculum common to all undergraduates in the College of Architecture, students apply for admission into the architecture program’s professional program. The professional program in architecture consists of two components: the three-year <span class="basic-text-bold">bachelor of science in design </span>(BSD-Architecture) and the subsequent two-year <span class="basic-text-bold">master of architecture</span> (MArch).</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in good standing at the completion of the BSD-Architecture are admitted to the MArch program without application.</p>
<p class="basic-text">In the United States, most state registration boards require a degree from an accredited professional degree program as a prerequisite for licensure. The National Architectural Accreditation Board (NAAB), which is the sole agency authorized to accredit U.S. professional degree programs in architecture, recognizes three types of degrees: the bachelor of architecture, the master of architecture and the doctor of architecture. A program may be granted a 6-year, 3-year, or 2-year term of accreditation, depending on the extent of its conformance with established educational standards.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Masters degree programs may consist of an undergraduate degree and a professional graduate degree, that, when earned sequentially, constitute an accredited professional education. However, the undergraduate degree is not, by itself, recognized as an accredited degree.</p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">The bachelor of science in design is a para-professional degree and a necessary component of the professional program which culminates with the master of architecture degree. The master of architecture degree is the first professional degree. </span>The professional master of architecture degree is fully accredited by the National Architectural Accreditation Board (NAAB).</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to the normal two-year professional program, <span class="basic-text-bold">applicants with degrees from other fields may be eligible to enter the three year master of architecture program with deficiencies.</span><span class="no-style-override"> </span>These deficiencies are evaluated by the program director on an individual basis after admission resulting from a review of the applicant’s transcripts and other pertinent professionally-related materials by the Student Affairs Committee. Students in this three year program are required to complete 27 to 50 hours of selected undergraduate courses (a minimum of one additional year) prior to pursuing the professional program. Applicants with deficiencies exceeding 50 credit hours are not admitted.</p>
<p class="basic-text">For those who would like to pursue scholarship and research in architecture, the architecture program also offers a 36 credit hour, scholarly-nonprofessional <span class="basic-text-bold">master of science in architecture degree for students with a bachelors degree in architecture or a related discipline</span>.</p>
<p class="title-1">The Master of Architecture Professional Program</p>
<p class="title-2">General</p>
<p class="basic-text">The professional program in architecture is a six-year course of study that includes a one-year pre-professional segment, a three-year core segment culminating in the award of the bachelor of science in design (BSD) and culminates in the final two-year exploratory segment which results in the receipt of the professional master of architecture degree (MArch).</p>
<p class="basic-text">Although the bachelor of science in design degree is an integral part of the five-year professional program in architecture, it should be clearly understood that the undergraduate BSD is not a professional degree and is not accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board. Most state registration boards will not acknowledge any degree unless accompanied by an accredited professional degree.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The accredited, first professional degree awarded by the College of Architecture is the <span class="basic-text-bold">master of architecture</span><span class="no-style-override"> </span>degree which is awarded at the successful conclusion of the professional program in architecture. This is the only accredited professional architecture program in the state of Nebraska.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Upon successful completion of the one-year pre-architecture program, students who have been admitted to the second year may enroll in the curriculum that leads to the BSD degree and the MArch degree.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The professional program in architecture is structured to develop highly competent professional architects capable of performing effectively in an evolving discipline.</p>
<p class="title-1">d.ONE: The Common First Year</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Common First Year (d.ONE) engages and prepares students for exciting futures in all design fields within the College of Architecture.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Common First Year (d.ONE) curriculum offered by the College of Architecture, introduces students to design through courses in three areas: Technique (drawing and computer applications), Design Discipline (an introduction to the related design disciplines and design history), and Design Practice (design Thinking and design Making). In addition, students take University courses in math, English, communications, and a general education elective. Design Thinking and Design Making are sequential hands-on courses where students learn to work in teams to address problems and promote innovation. At the same time, they learn the foundational skills in composition, craft, presentation, and idea generation necessary for all design fields.</p>
<p class="basic-text">At the end of the Common First Year, students have gained an understanding of the broad range of design and are eligible to apply to any of the design programs in the College—Architecture, Landscape Architecture, Interior Design, and Industrial Design (pending program approval).</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>
<p class="title-1">Admission to the Architecture Program</p>
<p class="basic-text">After completion of the first year of pre-architecture studies, either within the College of Architecture or at another institution, students may apply for admission to the architecture program.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Pre-architecture students should apply for admission to the professional program in architecture. Successful applicants will have their major changed from pre-architecture to BSD-Architecture option.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Available teaching resources and space capacities limit enrollment to the second year of architectural studies; therefore enrollment limits are established each semester.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Required courses must be completed before advancing to the next year of study.</p>
<p class="title-2">Minimum Entrance Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">To be considered for admission to the architecture program, applicants must:</p>
<ul>
<li>Be enrolled in the College of Architecture</li>
<li>Be in good scholastic standing</li>
<li>Have completed the one year pre-architecture program of study.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-1">Second Year Admission Process</p>
<p class="list">1. An application for admission may be completed by filling out the online application. The program receives applications once a year on March 1.</p>
<p class="list">2. Applicants must submit a portfolio conforming to the defined criteria for the program applied for by the date posted at the completion of the spring semester.</p>
<p class="list">3. Any applicant who has previously applied for admission and has not been accepted or who fails to enroll in the professional program in architecture after an acceptance must reapply in the regular manner. Students may apply for admission to the architecture program only three times.</p>
<p class="title-2">Evaluation</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Student Affairs Committee of the program will carefully evaluate the applications for admission. The committee considers three elements in their evaluation; cumulative grade point average, a weighted grade point average, and the portfolio of student work. The weighted grade point average gives additional value to the applicant’s achievement in the required DSGN prefix course or transfer equivalents in the pre-professional curriculum.</p>
<p class="title-2">Selection</p>
<p class="basic-text">Admission to the architecture program will be awarded to applicants who show the greatest professional potential and have demonstrated scholastic achievement. The Student Affairs Committee reserves the right to not fill all available spaces in the professional program in architecture if it determines that the remaining applicants have not performed at an acceptable level.</p>
<p class="title-1">Admission to the 2-Year Master of Architecture Program</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students having completed the BSD-Architecture may continue their studies culminating in the MArch without re-application provided they exhibit a cumulative grade point average of B (3.0) and a studio GPA of B (3.0). Students must submit an intent form with a brief statement of purpose. A portfolio is not required. Students wishing to be eligible for fellowship and assistantships must submit the form by February 1.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students from outside the program must apply to gain admission to the 2-year MArch degree program. Applications are available in October from the department office and are reviewed once a year in February. The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is not required.</p>
<p class="basic-text">All applications for admission are subject to approval of the Student Affairs Committee. Enrollment shall be limited by the teaching resources and space capacities of the department. An enrollment quota is established prior to each admissions cycle.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in the professional program are governed by the rules, procedures and policies established in the architecture program. These are published in the Student Guide or by official notification by the faculty.</p>
<p class="title-2">Minimum Entrance Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">To be considered for admission to the 2-Year professional program in architecture, applicants must:</p>
<ul>
<li>Have a 4-year degree from an accreditation-leading architecture program</li>
<li>Present a portfolio of design work</li>
<li>Be in good scholastic standing</li>
<li>Have a B average or its equivalent in past academic programs</li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">The Student Affairs Committee of the architecture program requires a minimum TOEFL score of 550 or 213 computer-based or Internet-based score of 79-80 for all international student applicants whose first language is not English.</p>
<p class="title-2">Evaluation</p>
<p class="basic-text">A portfolio of an applicant’s recent design work will be evaluated by the Student Affairs Committee of the architecture program and is considered to be a very important part of the application review process, along with the applicant’s educational profile, letters of recommendation, transcripts, and application form.</p>
<p class="title-2">Selection</p>
<p class="basic-text">The limited number of spaces available each semester will be awarded to applicants who have displayed the highest abilities in a combination of scholastic achievement, design capability, and professional potential. Strong applicants with significant deficiencies may be admitted to the 3-year MArch program.</p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="no-style-override-1">The Admissions Committee reserves the right to reject applicants who, in its opinion, have not reached an acceptable level of design proficiency.</span></p>
<p class="title-1">Admission to the 3-Year Master of Architecture Program</p>
<p class="title-2">Minimum Entrance Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">To be considered for admission to the 3-year MArch program, applicants must:</p>
<ul>
<li>Have a four-year bachelor degree in any field</li>
<li>Have a B (3.0) cumulative grade point average in past academic programs</li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">The Student Affairs Committee requires a minimum TOEFL score of 550 or 213 computer-based or Internet-based score of 79-80 for all international student applicants whose first language is not English.</p>
<p class="title-2">Evaluation</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Student Affairs Committee evaluates the candidate’s past academic record, three letters of recommendation, a statement of educational goals and the information requested on the application form. A portfolio is not required for candidates applying for the three year masters degree program, however, providing evidence of past achievements and/or creative activity is helpful to the committee in its evaluation.</p>
<p class="title-2">Selection</p>
<p class="basic-text">The limited number of spaces available each semester will be awarded to applicants who have displayed the highest abilities in a combination of scholastic achievement and professional potential.</p>
<p class="title-2">Deficiencies</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Student Affairs Committee and/or the Program Chair reserve the right to require additional course work be done to correct perceived deficiencies in the candidates educational background. Examples of common deficiencies include college calculus, basic design, and computer applications. Courses fulfilling these requirements are available at the University of Nebraska and may be taken in the summer preceding the first year of the program.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Pre-Architecture Curriculum</p>
<p class="basic-text">The pre-architecture curriculum begins with d.ONE, a basic design first year common to all undergraduate majors in the College of Architecture. This common first year introduces students to the fundamentals of design thinking and design making. The pre-architecture program is followed by three years of architectural instruction leading to a bachelor of science in design. After receipt of the bachelors degree, students may declare intentions to continue for an additional two years of study, leading to a professional master of architecture degree. The professional master of architecture degree is accredited by the National Architectural Accreditation Board (NAAB).</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Architecture, and all six years of the architecture program, are located at UNL. However, we do offer the option to complete the first year of the program at UNO. After successfully completing the prescribed pre-architecture program at UNO, students may transfer to UNL and apply for admission to the second year of study in the Architecture Program.</p>
<p class="basic-text">For more information about courses at UNO, or transferring from UNO to UNL, please contact us.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">PRE-ARCHITECTURE: Common First Year, First Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">DSGN 101 Introduction to Design 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">DSGN 110 Design Thinking <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 7)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">DSGN 120 Design Drawing 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGL 150 or ENGL 151 Composition Elective <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 1)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 6 Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 14</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">PRE-ARCHITECTURE: Common First Year, Second Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">DSGN 111 Design Making 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">DSGN 123 Computer Applications in Design 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">DSGN 140 History of Design <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 5)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 104 Applied Calculus 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Communication Elective: COMM 109 Fundamentals of Human Communication <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">ARCHITECTURE: Second Year, First Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ARCH 241 Architecture History &amp; Theory II <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 7)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ARCH 210 Architectural Design Studio: Representation 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ARCH 231 Structural Fundamentals 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 151 Elements of Physics <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 4)</span> 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="req_value"></span><span class="req_desc"></span><span class="req_value"></span><span class="req_desc"></span><span class="req_value"></span><span class="req_desc"><span class="requirement-ital"></span></span><span class="req_value"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="req_desc">Total</span><span class="leader"></span><span class="req_value">15</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span style="color: #333333;">ARCHITECTURE</span>: Second Year, Second Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="req_desc"></span></p>
<p><span style="color: #333333;"></span><span class="req_desc"></span><span class="req_desc"></span><span class="req_value"></span><span class="req_desc"></span><span class="req_value"></span><span class="req_desc"></span><span class="req_value"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="req_desc"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="req_desc"><span class="requirement-ital"></span></span><span class="req_value"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ARCH 262 Building Organization 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ARCH 211 Architectural Design Studio: Ideation 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ARCH 232 Materials and Assemblies 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ARCH 222 BIM for Design - Introduction to BIM 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Technique 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 6, 8, or 9 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="req_desc">Total</span><span class="leader"></span><span class="req_value">16</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span style="color: #333333;">ARCHITECTURE</span>: Third Year, First Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="req_desc"></span><span class="req_value"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span style="color: #333333;">ARCH 240 Architecture History &amp; Theory I (ACE 5) 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span style="color: #333333;">ARCH 310 Fundamentals of Achitectural Design (ACE 10) 5</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span style="color: #333333;">ARCH 3XX Structural Mechanics 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="req_desc"></span><span class="req_value"></span><span class="req_desc"></span><span class="req_value"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="req_desc"><span class="requirement-ital"></span></span><span class="req_value">ACE 6, 8, or 9 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span style="color: #333333;">Open Elective 3 </span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="req_desc">Total</span><span class="leader"></span><span class="req_value">17</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span style="color: #333333;">ARCHITECTURE</span>: Third Year, Second Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="req_desc"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span style="color: #333333;">ARCH 360 Site Context Issues 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span style="color: #333333;">ARCH 311 Architectural Design: Ecological Context (ACE 10) 5</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span style="color: #333333;">ARCH 3XX Structural Optimization 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span style="color: #333333;">Open Elective 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="req_desc"><span class="requirement-ital"></span></span><span class="req_value"></span><span class="req_desc"></span><span class="req_value"></span><span class="req_desc"></span><span class="req_value"></span><span class="req_desc"></span><span class="req_value"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="req_desc">Total</span><span class="leader"></span><span class="req_value">14</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span style="color: #333333;"></span><span class="req_desc"></span><span class="req_value"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">ARCHITECTURE: Fourth Year, First Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="req_desc"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span style="color: #333333;">ARCH 461 Urbanism (LARC 461) 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span style="color: #333333;">ARCH 410 Architctural Design: Tectonics (ACE 10) 5</span><span style="color: #333333;"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span style="color: #333333;">ARCH 333 Building Environmental Technical Systems I (CNST 305) 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span style="color: #333333;">Open Elective 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="req_value"></span><span class="req_desc"></span><span class="req_value"></span><span class="req_desc"><span class="requirement-ital"></span></span><span class="req_value"></span><span class="req_desc"></span><span class="req_value"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="req_desc">Total</span><span class="leader"></span><span class="req_value">14</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span style="color: #333333;">ARCHITECTURE</span>: Fourth Year, Second Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="req_desc"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="req_value"></span><span class="req_desc"></span><span class="req_value"></span><span class="req_desc"></span><span class="req_value"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span style="color: #333333;">ARCH 341 Architectural Theory 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span style="color: #333333;">ARCH 411 Architectural Design: Urbanism Studio (ACE 10) 5</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span style="color: #333333;">ARCH 430 Technological Integration 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span style="color: #333333;">Open Elective 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total<span class="leader"></span><span class="req_value">14</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total for Graduation<span class="leader"></span>120</span></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Minimum Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students must earn at least a C (2.0) in all courses with an ARCH, DSGN, IDES, or LARC prefix to earn credit toward their degree. Students will be required to retake all core required courses with a grade of C- or below, but will not be required to repeat courses that were taken as electives.</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">None of the required classes offered in the professional program are offered Pass/No Pass, but a maximum of 12 Pass/No Pass credit hours of humanities, social sciences, or open electives may be taken from departments outside the College of Architecture.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Courses taken outside the architecture, landscape architecture, or interior design programs to fulfill the upper level outside elective requirement at the 800 level or 900 level, with or without a 400-level counterpart, in a minor, collateral, or supporting area of work, can be taken on a Pass/No Pass basis.</p>
<p class="title-2">GPA Requirements</p>
<p class="title-3">Pre-Professional Program, Architecture, Landscape Architecture and Interior Design</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in the first year are required to maintain both a semester and cumulative grade point average at or above 2.0. The College places students who fail to meet these standards on academic probation.</p>
<p class="title-3">Second, Third and Fourth Year, Architecture</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in the second year are required to maintain both a semester and cumulative grade point average of 2.6. Students in the third and fourth year of the BSD program are required to meet two parallel academic standards. First the student must maintain a semester grade point average of 2.6 to remain in good academic standing. The Program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation. Further, students whose GPA for the academic year is between 2.6 and 3.0 are required to submit their studio work for review by the Student Affairs Committee for determination of continuance in the program or repetition of the year’s studio sequence.</p>
<p class="title-3">Fifth and Sixth Year, Architecture</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in the MArch program are required to maintain a semester grade point average of 3.0 to remain in good academic standing. The Program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>