<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Art History 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="art-history-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Art History</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE: </span>Fine &amp; Performing Arts</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Art History</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED: </span>120</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Christy Aggens</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION </p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Interim Chair: Peter Pinnell,</span> 120 Richards Hall</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Hoff, Mamiya, Stewart</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Bolland, Katz</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> Vigneault</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A diverse and experienced faculty of art historians help art history scholars explore the history of the visual arts from ancient to modern art and the theoretical and critical literature associated with the cultures producing a given art style. Students attain proficiency in the practice of art and knowledge of the history of art in addition to general college education with about one-fourth of the course work in the Department of Art and Art History.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Degree at a Glance</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Requirements 30</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Languages: Classical &amp; Modern 0-6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select from the list of “Approved Courses” found under “College Degree Requirements.”</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Library 110 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Art History Major Requirements 33</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Minor(s) 18-24</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives 26-38</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total hours required for graduation 120</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSION</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Major/Department Admission</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Any student who meets college admission requirements may declare a major in art history.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Specific Major Requirements </p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AHIS 101 Introduction to Art History &amp; Criticism I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AHIS 102 Introduction to Art History &amp; Criticism II 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AHIS 400 Art History Capstone Experience <span class="requirement-ital">(offered spring semester only)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Art History electives<span class="requirement-ital"> (including a minimum of 12 credits of courses numbered above 299)</span> 24</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Minor Requirements </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students are required to complete one Plan A or two or more Plan B minors.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS<span class="no-style-override"> </span></p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">All courses taken for major requirements must be for letter grade.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Minimum grade for all major requirements is C.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Course Level Requirement </p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">A minimum of 15 credits in the major<span class="basic-text-ital"> (including AHIS 400)</span> must be in courses numbered 299 or above.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules, Transfer Credit Rules</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">No more than 6 hours of independent study courses (AHIS 390, AHIS 392, AHIS 395, AHIS 490, AHIS 492, AHIS 495, AHIS 499H) may count toward the major in the BA degree.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">At least 18 credit hours of the required art history courses must be taken at UNL. Courses taken at other academic institutions may be substituted for the remaining required courses subject to evaluation by the department. </li>
			</ul>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT<span class="no-style-override"> </span></p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Plan A minor in art history—18 credits</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AHIS 101 Introduction to Art History &amp; Criticism I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AHIS 102 Introduction to Art History &amp; Criticism II 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Art History electives <span class="requirement-ital">(including at least 3 credits in courses numbered above 299)</span> 12</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Plan B minor in art history—12 credits</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AHIS 101 Introduction to Art History &amp; Criticism I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AHIS 102 Introduction to Art History &amp; Criticism II 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Art History electives 6</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Up to 6 hours of Pass/No Pass may be taken in the Plan A minor or each of two Plan B minors.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
