<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Biochemistry (ASC).xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="biochemistry-asc-">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Biochemistry (ASC)</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Biochemistry (ASC)</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER: </span>Britta Osborne</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Paul Black,</span> N200 Beadle Center</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Becker, Cahoon, DiRusso, Markwell, Spreitzer, Weeks, Wood</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors</span>: Adamec, Bailey, Barycki, Lee, Simpson, Stone, Wilson</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Basset, Buan, Fomenko, Hall, Harris, Khalimonchuk, Markham</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice:</span> Madhavan</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> Zhang</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Department of Biochemistry offers studies leading to either a bachelor of science (BS) or to a combined bachelors and masters degree (BS and MS) in biochemistry. The training offered is suitable for a professional career in biochemistry, which may lead to employment in various industries involved in the manufacture or processing of chemicals, foods, feeds, and pharmaceuticals; or federal agencies such as the Food and Drug Administration, U.S. Department of Agriculture, U.S. Public Health Service, and Environmental Protection Agency. The program is also suitable as preparation for graduate studies leading to academic careers in biochemistry and professional careers in medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, pharmacy, and health-related fields.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The combined bachelors and masters degree in biochemistry is especially tailored for highly motivated undergraduate students with superior ability who seek additional training to further their career goals. This research thesis-based program is designed to provide opportunities to students to carry out and interpret contemporary research.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> Advanced degrees of master of science and doctor of philosophy are available through the Center for Biological Chemistry. For details, consult the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Laboratory Fee and Deposit.</span> Students who enroll in laboratory courses in the Department of Biochemistry may be required to pay a small nonrefundable cash fee to defray the cost of materials consumed in the course and a deposit to cover the cost of replacing or repairing equipment the student may damage in the laboratory.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Specific Major Requirements</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Biochemistry 12</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 101 Career Opportunities in Biochemistry 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 431 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 432 Gene Expression &amp; Replication 2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 433 Biochemistry Lab 2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 435 Advanced Topics in Biochemistry<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 10)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Natural Sciences 45-49</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>LIFE 120 Fundamentals of Biology I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>LIFE 120L Fundamentals of Biology I Lab 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 206 General Genetics <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> AGRO 315 Genetics 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 312 Microbiology 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 313 Molecular Microbiology Lab (2 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BIOS 314 Microbiology Lab (1 cr) 1-2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 General Chemistry I &amp; II &amp; CHEM 221 Elementary Quantitative Analysis (12 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 113 &amp; CHEM 114 Fundamental Chemistry I &amp; II &amp; CHEM 221 Elementary Quantitative Analysis (11 cr) 11-12</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 261 &amp; CHEM 263 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab 4-5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 252 &amp; CHEM 254 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 262 &amp; CHEM 264 Organic Chemistry II &amp; Lab 4-5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 471 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 481 Physical Chemistry 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 141 &amp; PHYS 142 Elementary General Physics I &amp; II (10 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 212 General Physics I &amp; II &amp; PHYS 221 &amp; PHYS 222 General Physics Lab I &amp; II (10 cr) 10</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Mathematics and Statistics 9</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Minimum Credit Hours for Graduation 120</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Within the same subject matter area, students may request a more advanced course be substituted for a required course.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Advanced Placement and International Baccalaureate Credit.</span> Students who earned AP or IB credit for general chemistry in high school are still required to complete a freshman-level chemistry sequence at an accredited post-secondary institution. These students are encouraged, but not required, to take CHEM 113/CHEM 114 rather than CHEM 109/CHEM 110. High school dual enrollment credit is not included in this policy.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, selected courses are assessed and majors are required to participate in an exit interview in their senior year. The interview will be conducted in the BIOC 435 course and results of participation in the interview will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Pass/No Pass.</span> Students in biochemistry may not take any of the courses required for the biochemistry degree program Pass/No Pass except for courses involving independent study, research, and seminars.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">A minimum of 18 credit hours of course work to include the following courses:</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 431 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 432 Gene Expression &amp; Replication 2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 206 General Genetics <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> AGRO 315 Genetics 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 312 Microbiology 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 313 Molecular Microbiology Lab (2 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BIOS 314 Microbiology Lab (1 cr) 1-2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 252 Organic Chemistry II <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 262 Organic Chemistry 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 254 Organic Chemistry II</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'> Lab (1 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 264 Organic Chemistry Lab (2 cr) 1-2</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
