<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Biochemistry (CASNR) 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="biochemistry-casnr-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Biochemistry (CASNR)</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Biochemistry (CASNR)</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Biological Chemistry</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Britta Osborne</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Paul Black,</span> N200 Beadle Center</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Becker, Cahoon, DiRusso, Markwell, Spreitzer, Staswick, Weeks, Wood</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Adamec, Bailey, Barycki, Lee, Simpson, Stone, Wilson</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Basset, Buan, Fomenko, Hall, Harris, Khalimonchuk, Markham</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice:</span> Madhavan</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> Zhang</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator for Undergraduate Research:</span> Madhavan</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Department of Biochemistry offers studies leading to a bachelor of science (BS) or a combined bachelors and masters degree (BS and MS) in biochemistry. The training offered is suitable for a professional career in biochemistry which may lead to employment in various industries involved in the manufacture or processing of chemicals, foods, feeds, and pharmaceuticals; or federal agencies such as the Food and Drug Administration, U.S. Department of Agriculture, U.S. Public Health Service, and Environmental Protection Agency. The program is also suitable as preparation for graduate studies leading to academic careers in biochemistry and for professional careers in medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine and health-related fields.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The combined bachelors and masters degree in biochemistry is especially tailored for highly motivated undergraduate students with superior ability who seek additional training to further their career goals. This research thesis-based program is designed to provide opportunities to students to carry out and interpret contemporary research.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> Advanced degrees of master of science and doctor of philosophy are available through the Center for Biological Chemistry. For details, consult the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Laboratory Fee and Deposit.</span> Students who enroll in laboratory courses in the Department of Biochemistry may be required to pay a small nonrefundable cash fee to defray the cost of materials consumed in the course and a deposit to cover the cost of replacing or repairing equipment the student may damage in the laboratory.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Specific Major Requirements</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Biochemistry Core 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AGRI 103/NRES 103 Introduction to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 101 Career Opportunities in Biochemistry 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 431 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 432 Gene Expression &amp; Replication 2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 433 Biochemistry Lab 2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 435 Advanced Topics in Biochemistry<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 10)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Natural Sciences 45-49</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>LIFE 120 Fundamentals of Biology I<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 4)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>LIFE 120L Fundamentals of Biology I Lab<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 4)</span> 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 206 General Genetics <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> AGRO 315 Genetics 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 312 Microbiology 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 313 Molecular Microbiology Lab (2 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BIOS 314 Microbiology Lab (1 cr) 1-2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select one sequence from:</span> 11-12</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 General Chemistry I &amp; II (4 cr ea) &amp; CHEM 221 Elementary Quantitative Analysis (4 cr) (12 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 113 Fundamental Chemistry I (4 cr) &amp; CHEM 114 Fundamental Chemistry II (3 cr) &amp; CHEM 221 Elementary Quantitative Analysis (4 cr) (11 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select one sequence from:</span> 4-5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab (4 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 261 &amp; CHEM 263 Organic Chemistry &amp; Lab (5 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select one sequence from:</span> 4-5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 252 &amp; CHEM 254 Organic Chemistry II &amp; Lab (4 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 262 &amp; CHEM 264 Organic Chemistry &amp; Lab (5 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 471 Physical Chemistry <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 481 Physical Chemistry I 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select one sequence from:</span> 10</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 141 &amp; PHYS 142 Elementary General Physics I &amp; II (5 cr ea) (10 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 212 General Physics I &amp; II (4 cr ea) and PHYS 221 &amp; PHYS 222 General Physics Lab I &amp; II (1 cr ea) (10 cr)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Mathematics and Statistics 9</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 3)</span> 5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Communications 6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Written Communication <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 1)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> ENGL 150, ENGL 151, ENGL 254; JGEN 120, JGEN 200, JGEN 300</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Communication and Interpersonal Skills <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> ALEC 102; COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 286; JGEN 300</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Economics, Humanities, and Social Sciences 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 211 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ECON 212 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> AECN 141 <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 6)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Courses 12</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Select one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, and 9.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Free Electives 26-30</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Minimum Credit Hours for Graduation 120</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Within the same subject matter area, students may request a more advanced course be substituted for a required course.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Advanced Placement and International Baccalaureate Credit.</span> Students who earned AP or IB credit for general chemistry in high school are still required to complete a freshman-level chemistry sequence at an accredited post-secondary institution. These students are encouraged, but not required, to take CHEM 113/CHEM 114 rather than CHEM 109/CHEM 110. High school dual enrollment credit is not included in this policy.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Pass/No Pass.</span> Students in biochemistry may not take any of the courses required for the biochemistry degree program Pass/No Pass except for courses involving independent study, research, and seminars.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Minimum Grade Requirement.</span> No transfer or UNL C- and D grades can be applied toward requirements in the biochemistry major or a minor.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">A minimum of 18 credit hours of course work to include the following courses:</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 431 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 432 Gene Expression &amp; Replication 2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 206 General Genetics <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> AGRO 315 Genetics 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 312 Microbiology 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 313 Molecular Microbiology Lab (2 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BIOS 314 Microbiology Lab (1 cr) 1-2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 252 Organic Chemistry II <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 262 Organic Chemistry 3 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 254 Organic Chemistry II Lab (1 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 264 Organic Chemistry Lab (2 cr) 1-2</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
