<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Biological Sciences 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="biological-sciences-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Biological Sciences</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts & Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Biological Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Wendy O'Connor and Erin Sayer</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Valery E. Forbes,</span> 348 Manter Hall</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Vice Director:</span> John C. Osterman, 348 Manter Hall</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Avramova, Basolo, Blum, Cerutti, Christensen, Forbes, Fritz, Gardner, Gibson, Harshman, Kamil, Knops, Mackenzie, Morris, Nickerson, Wagner, Wood, Zera, L. Zhang </p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> P. Angeletti, Atkin, Bachman, Brassil, Chia, Elthon, Hebets, Li, Montooth, E. Moriyama, H. Moriyama, Osterman, Pilson, Storz, Tenhumberg  </p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Brown, Couch, DeLong, Meiklejohn, Riekhof, Russo, Smith, Weber, Yu, C. Zhang</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice:</span> Glider, Woodman</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturers:</span> A. Angeletti, Herman</p>
<p class="basic-text">The School of Biological Sciences offers educational opportunities in various areas of biology leading toward either the Bachelor of Science or the Bachelor of Arts degree. Study in the biological sciences prepares students for a variety of careers requiring knowledge of biological processes, such as teaching; environmental resource management and assessment; production and sales of biological materials; research in governmental, industrial, and academic laboratories; as well as preparation for careers in medicine, dentistry, and health-related professions.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> The advanced degrees of Master of Science, and Doctor of Philosophy are offered. For details, see the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Core Requirements</p>
<ul>
<li><span>LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L Fundamentals of Biology I &amp; Lab</span></li>
<li><span>LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L Fundamentals of Biology II &amp; Lab</span></li>
<li><span>BIOS 205 Genetics, Molecular &amp; Cellular Biology Lab</span></li>
<li><span>BIOS 206 General Genetics</span></li>
<li><span>BIOS 207 Ecology &amp; Evolution</span></li>
</ul>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<ul>
<li><span>An additional 18 hours of elective courses in biological sciences.</span></li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">At least 10 hours must be at the 300 level or above, with at least 3 hours at the 400 level. Students concerned about their preparation for college-level biology should consult their adviser.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Additionally, biological sciences majors are strongly urged to attend the Cedar Point Biological Station for at least one summer session. Majors are also encouraged to do a research project with a faculty member.</p>
<p class="basic-text">No more than 8 hours may be from courses whose home department is other than biological sciences.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The following courses will NOT count toward the biological sciences major: BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L, BIOS 150, BIOS 160, BIOS 203, BIOS 220, BIOS 222, BIOS 232 or BIOS 280. BIOS 395 Internship is offered Pass/No Pass only and therefore may not be used in the major.</p>
<p class="basic-text">No minor is required, but biological sciences majors must complete the following ancillary courses in addition to the 36 hours in the major:</p>
<ul>
<li>Biochemistry: BIOC 321 <span class="basic-text-bold">or</span> BIOC 431</li>
<li>Chemistry: CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> CHEM 113 &amp; CHEM 114</li>
<li>Organic Chemistry: CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 <span class="basic-text-bold">or</span> CHEM 255 &amp; CHEM 257 <span class="basic-text-bold">or</span> CHEM 261 &amp; CHEM 263</li>
<li>Mathematics: MATH 106 <span class="basic-text-bold">and</span> one of the following: MATH 107 <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> CSCE 155T <span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span> an approved statistics course <span class="list-ital">(choose from STAT 218, EDPS 459, PSYC 350, ECON 215, STAT 380)</span></li>
<li>Physics: PHYS 141 &amp; PHYS 142 <span class="basic-text-bold">or</span> PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 212</li>
</ul>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> To assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its program, after significantly completing the course work, all majors will be required in their senior year to register for BIOS 99 and complete selected assessment activities.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Results of participation in these assessment activities will in no way affect a students GPA or graduation.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">No biological science course, except BIOS 310, used to fulfill the 36 hours for the major (and 18 hours for the minor) may be taken Pass/No Pass.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<ul>
<li>18 hours, comprised of the five-course core: LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L, LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L, BIOS 205, BIOS 206, and BIOS 207</li>
</ul>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>