<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Broadcasting 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="broadcasting-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Broadcasting</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Journalism &amp; Mass Communications</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Broadcasting</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Journalism</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes-only for meteorology majors and environmental studies majors with a meteorology emphasis</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Michael Goff</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Hull (emeritus), Lee, Mayeux (emeritus), Renaud, Walklin</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Alloway, Creighton, McCoy, Spann (emeritus)</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice:</span> Christensen</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> Peon-Casanova</p>
<p class="faculty-list"></p>

<p class="basic-text"><span>The broadcasting major offers courses leading to a wide variety of careers in the broadcasting and telecommunications industry. Building on a solid base of instruction in radio, television, mobile and online journalism, the major has broadened its curriculum in response to advancing technology and new electronic media. Broadcasting offers courses in news gathering and dissemination, sports reporting, videography, sales, management, programming and other specializations including the use of audio and video on the Internet and the World Wide Web. Courses are designed to develop both a comprehensive understanding of theoretical principles and professional skills. Most courses involve extensive practical laboratory work in addition to classroom lectures and discussions.</span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span>Many of the broadcasting faculty members have extensive industry experience at media organizations such as ABC News, WBNS-TV (CBS) in Columbus, Ohio, KMTV, Omaha, Nebraska and Nebraska Educational Television. The faculty continues to be connected to the industry, and its members are actively involved in professional media organizations. Students, likewise, are encouraged to further their professional goals through participation in student organizations such as the Alpha Epsilon Rho national broadcasting society, the Society of Professional Journalists, Northwest Broadcast News Association, Radio, Television News Directors Association, the Radio Television Digital News Association and the American Copy Editors Association.</span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span>KRNU and KRNU2, are professionally managed radio stations, and an integral part of the instructional program. With studios in Andersen Hall, KRNU operates year-round and serves an audience of potentially 250,000 persons in the Lincoln area, plus a global audience via the Internet. KRNU2 operates on the Internet only. <span></span>Student-produced programs aired on these stations have won many awards in competition with other student groups as well as with commercial stations. Students are successful in the Broadcast Education Association national student competition, Society of Professional Journalists and the Northwest Broadcast News Association</span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span>Students have also had success in the national Hearst competition, including the national winner in the 2013 feature category in television news, second place television news overall in 2012, third place radio news overall and the broadcast television news national winner in 2006.<span> </span>In addition, several students have placed in the top five in both radio and television.<span>  </span></span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span>And broadcasting students have achieved success in producing documentary films.<span> </span>Broadcasting students received a Bronze Oscar in the student documentary category for their 2003 production of “Cuba: An Illogical Temple.”<span> </span>Students also finished in the top seven in the student academy awards for a documentary comparing the Tsunami in Sri Lanka to hurricane Katrina in New Orleans.<span> </span>A third documentary, "Breaking Down Barriers,"</span><span> compared the challenges facing Turkish immigrants living in Germany with Hispanic immigrants living in the U.S. It won the prestigious Robert F. Kennedy award for human rights in 2008. </span><span></span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span>In addition, students may work and take classes in the studios of the Nebraska Educational Television Network, one of the premier ETV facilities in the nation.<span>  </span></span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span>Students also produce Star City News, a bi-weekly television news broadcast, and Fast Forward, a bi-weekly entertainment program, which are distributed throughout Lincoln via cable television. </span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span>Broadcasting faculty assist students in acquiring internships and professional work experience prior to graduation. Last year more than 100 media-related internships and professional part-time jobs were held by broadcasting majors including internships at CNN in New York working with Anderson Cooper, at ESPN and VH1.<span> </span>Graduates are working for major media organizations throughout the nation.</span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span>Students wishing to major in broadcasting should contact the college office in 147 Andersen Hall.</span></p>

<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>


<p class="basic-text"><span>The broadcasting major is 39 hours with 18-21 of the hours selected to develop emphasis in either news or production.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span>Those completing either a <span class="header-paragraph-title">news emphasis</span> or a <span class="header-paragraph-title">production emphasis</span> take all of the following: JOMC 101, JOMC 160, JOMC 486, and JOMC 487.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span>Those who choose a <span class="header-paragraph-title">news emphasis</span> additionally complete JOUR 202, JOUR 304; BRDC 369, BRDC 370, BRDC 472 and 9 hours of electives chosen from advertising and public relations, broadcasting or journalism.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span>Those who pursue a <span class="header-paragraph-title">production emphasis</span> additionally complete JOMC 161, BRDC 227, BRDC 228, BRDC 359, BRDC 360, BRDC 462 and 6 hours of electives selected from advertising and public relations, broadcasting or journalism.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span>Students may complete two majors in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications by completing all requirements for each major; however, the second major in the college will not take the place of a concentration or any of the 72 hours required outside the college.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span>Graduating seniors also must complete JOMC 98, Senior Assessment. Typically, JOMC 98 is taken in the last semester; however, seniors who have completed all courses for the major may take it two semesters preceding graduation.</span></p>

<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>

<p class="title-2"><span>Internship Policy</span></p>
<p><span><span class="basic-text">Students may be able to earn credit for internships under certain circumstances. Please go to the college website and find the Internship Policy under the Student Services tab. </span> </span></p>
<p class="title-2"><span>Credit in Special Experiences</span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span>Students may earn up to six credit hours toward the degree in some courses: Jacht, National Student Advertising Competition, photojournalism reports, depth reports and others. Students may repeat the same course again for additional credit hours, but those credits will not count toward the degree inside or outside the major. Talk with an academic adviser for further information or specific questions.</span></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="basic-text">A broadcasting minor (18 hours) is available only for meteorology majors and environmental studies majors with a meteorology emphasis. These students complete both JOMC 162 and JOMC 163 or only JOMC 160 and all of the following: JOUR 202, BRDC 369, BRDC 370 and BRDC 472.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>