<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Chemistry 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="chemistry-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Chemistry</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts & Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Chemistry</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Craig Eckhardt</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: David Berkowitz,</span> 551 Hamilton Hall</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Vice Chair:</span> Marjorie Langell</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Berkowitz, DiMagno, Du, Dussault, Eckhardt, Hage, Harbison, Langell,  Parkhurst, Powers, Rajca, Redepenning, Takacs, Zeng</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Cheung, Griep, Lai, Li</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Dodds, Guo,  Morin, Sinitskii, C. Stains, M. Stains, Zhang</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors of Practice:</span> Kautz, Malina</p>
<p class="basic-text">Chemistry deals with the analysis, structure, properties, and synthesis of matter ranging in size from single atoms to biologically-active small molecules to DNA and proteins. A degree in chemistry prepares students for many career options: industry (research, analysis, production), teaching, graduate studies, or professional schools. Chemistry is also a valuable second major for students completing degrees in a number of science, math, or engineering disciplines. The bachelor of science (BS) is recommended for students planning graduate studies or professional careers in chemistry and is also an excellent choice for pre-medicine. The bachelor of arts (BA) program is designed for students needing undergraduate training in chemistry as preparation for professional careers outside of chemistry and fits easily into pre-medical, pre-pharmacy, pre-health, and pre-law degree programs. A degree with a chemistry emphasis is available to students enrolled in the Environmental Studies program (consult that entry for details). The chemistry department hosts a Web page with other information (scholarships, etc.) relating to the undergraduate programs at http://chem.unl.edu/undergrad/.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Laboratory Fee and Deposit.</span> Students who enroll in chemistry laboratory courses pay a special fee to defray the cost of materials and equipment. The special fee is applied to tuition in the amounts given in the <span class="basic-text-ital">Schedule of Classes</span>.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Breakage Costs.</span> Glassware and equipment that are lost or damaged by the student are charged to the students N-card.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> The advanced degrees of master of science and doctor of philosophy are offered. For details, consult the <span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span>.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Bachelor of Science in Chemistry Required Program of Study</p>
<p class="list">Chemistry (46-49 cr); Math (13 cr); and Physics (8-12 cr)</p>
<p class="list-indent">CHEM 101 Career Opportunities in Chemistry</p>
<p class="list-indent">CHEM 113, CHEM 114, CHEM 221 (Fundamental Chemistry &amp; Quantities Analysis)</p>
<p class="list-indent">ACE Student Learning Outcome 4 is met by any one of the following: CHEM 105, CHEM 109, CHEM 110, or CHEM 113</p>
<p class="list-indent">CHEM 261, CHEM 262, CHEM 263 (2 cr), CHEM 264 (2 cr) (Organic Chemistry)</p>
<p class="list-indent">CHEM 431, CHEM 433 (Biochemistry)</p>
<p class="list-indent">CHEM 481, CHEM 482, CHEM 484 (Physical Chemistry)</p>
<p class="list-indent">CHEM 399 (at least 2 cr) (Undergraduate Research)</p>
<p class="list">And</p>
<p class="list-indent">Either CHEM 421 &amp; CHEM 423 (Analytical Chemistry) or CHEM 441 &amp; CHEM 443 (Inorganic Chemistry) or both.</p>
<p class="list-indent">ACE Student Learning Outcome 10 is met by both combinations of CHEM 421 &amp; CHEM 423 and CHEM 441 &amp; CHEM 443</p>
<p class="list-indent">MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 208</p>
<p class="list-indent">PHYS 211, PHYS 212 (with recommendations of PHYS 213 &amp; PHYS 222)</p>
<p class="title-2">Bachelor of Arts in Chemistry Required Program of Study</p>
<p class="list">Chemistry (35-36 cr); Math (9-10 cr); and Physics (8-10 cr)</p>
<p class="list-indent">CHEM 101 Career Opportunities in Chemistry</p>
<p class="list-indent">CHEM 109, CHEM 110, CHEM 221 (General Chemistry &amp; Quantitative Analysis)</p>
<p class="list-indent">ACE Student Learning Outcome 4 is met by any one of the following: CHEM 105, CHEM 109, CHEM 110, or CHEM 113</p>
<p class="list-indent">CHEM 251, CHEM 252, CHEM 253, CHEM 254 (Organic Chemistry)</p>
<p class="list-indent">CHEM 471 (or CHEM 481) (Physical Chemistry)</p>
<p class="list">And</p>
<p class="list-indent">At least two of the following combinations:</p>
<p class="list-indent">CHEM 421 &amp; CHEM 423 (Analytical); CHEM 431 &amp; CHEM 433 (Biological); CHEM 441 &amp; CHEM 443 (Inorganic)</p>
<p class="list">ACE Student Learning Outcome 10 is met by both combinations of CHEM 421 &amp; CHEM 423 and CHEM 441 &amp; CHEM 443</p>
<p class="list">MATH 106, MATH 107 (or MATH 238)</p>
<p class="list">PHYS 141 and PHYS 142</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE: </span>It is possible to transfer between the BS and BA programs despite the different sets of courses, but the student should visit the chemistry adviser to work out the details.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required in their senior year:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. To take a standardized chemistry exam during their final year in the program. It will be administered during the middle of the spring semester at a time that is mutually agreeable to all graduating seniors.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. To participate in an exit interview with a designated faculty member.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. To submit a copy of the report written for CHEM 399 to the departmental office for evaluation.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Vice-Chair will inform students of the scheduling and format of assessment activities.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Results of participation in these assessment activities will in no way affect a students GPA or graduation.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students majoring in chemistry may not take chemistry courses Pass/No Pass except for CHEM 396 and/or CHEM 399. Chemistry majors may take up to 6 hours in minor courses Pass/No Pass subject to approval of the department granting the minor.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Plan A chemistry minor is for students with only one minor. The program of study is:</span> completion of a freshman chemistry sequence (CHEM 109, CHEM 110, and CHEM 221 or CHEM 113, CHEM 114, and CHEM 221) plus an additional 12 hours of chemistry excluding CHEM 131, CHEM 195, CHEM 396, and CHEM 399.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Plan B chemistry minor is for students with two or more minors. The program of study is:</span> completion of a freshman chemistry sequence (CHEM 109, CHEM 110, and CHEM 221 or CHEM 113, CHEM 114, and CHEM 221) plus an additional 8 hours of chemistry excluding CHEM 131, CHEM 195, CHEM 396, and CHEM 399.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>