<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Chemical Engineering 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="chemical-engineering-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Chemical Engineering</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Chemical Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 131-132</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> </p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Hendrik Viljoen</span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Cornelius, Larsen, Noureddini, Saraf, Subramanian, Timm, Velander, Viljoen</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Demirel, Van Cott</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span> Kidambi</p>
<p><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturer:</span> <span class="faculty-list">Flodman</span></p>
<p class="basic-text">The mission of the University of Nebraska–Lincoln chemical and biomolecular engineering program is to provide qualified students with a foundation in engineering sciences and engineering design methods to prepare them for successful professional careers and to contribute to the needs of society.</p>
<p class="basic-text">In pursuit of the program’s mission, the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering has established the Educational Objectives given below:</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">The graduate of the University of Nebraska Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering:</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Performs as a chemical engineer.</span></p>
<p class="list-indent">Contributes with satisfying progress toward the level at which he or she chooses to engage in professional practice in industry, academics, allied or alternate fields.</p>
<p class="list-indent">Pursues a career as a practicing engineer in diverse fields such as chemical process industries, biochemical technology, pharmaceuticals, petroleum, energy, polymers/advanced materials, food processing, medicine/medical research, environment or safety; pursues an academic career to teach, research and serve the community.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Applies engineering and scientific principles.</span></p>
<p class="list-indent">Uses engineering and economic analyses, modern engineering tools and techniques with existing practical constraints and limitations to create solutions that are economical and sustainable.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Interacts successfully with a wide range of people. </span></p>
<p class="list-indent">Exercises care and responsibility in broad and diverse interpersonal interactions by effectively listening, speaking, writing and presenting.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Incorporates safety, ethics, and environmental protection in all engineering practices.</span></p>
<p class="list-indent">Understands the importance of safety, health, and environmental protection in all engineering practices. Upholds the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE) Code of Ethics and advises colleagues and the public on consequences presenting adverse effects on health, safety and the environment.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Accepts responsibility for life-long learning.</span></p>
<p class="basic-text">Continues professional growth and development throughout his or her career by participating in professional societies such as AIChE, industrial training, continuing education and professional development courses.</p>
</br>
<p class="basic-text">The Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering offers a course of study designed for students who plan careers in a wide variety of industries, ranging from the chemical and process industries to biotechnology, electronics, and the environment. Students receive training in the basic subjects of mathematics, English, and physics in common with other students in engineering, but in addition receive extensive training in chemistry. In various courses the emphasis is placed on the fundamental principles of fluid mechanics, heat transfer, mass transfer, separation processes, thermodynamics, kinetics, and process dynamics, as well as process economics and design of chemical processes.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The instructional laboratories provide opportunities for students to operate experimental equipment, to test the theories and correlations developed in the classroom, and to design their own experimental equipment for the solution of special problems.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Graduates are qualified to undertake work in research, design, development, production, maintenance, and technical sales in a wide variety of industries including chemicals, petroleum, petrochemicals, rubber, plastics, agricultural chemicals, food, biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, paper, fabrics, aircraft, automotive, electronics, energy conversion, and environmental pollution prevention and control.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering is located in Othmer Hall. A state-of-the-art unit operations laboratory, used to give hands-on chemical process experience, is located there. Laboratory equipment is provided for the study of fluid mechanics, heat transfer, mass transfer, staged operations, process control, thermodynamics, reaction kinetics, and polymerization. The department operates its own microcomputer facility. Additional research equipment is available for independent and graduate study in several areas.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">Any student in the chemical and biomolecular engineering program whose grade point average in required chemical and biomolecular engineering courses is less than 2.4 will be admitted to the required courses of the following year only with the special permission of the department.</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">First Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 113 Fundamental Chemistry I* 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 113 Introduction to Chemical Engineering I 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 10 Freshman Engineering Seminar 0</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 106 Calculus I 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Electives <span class="superscript">1</span> 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 17</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Second Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 114 Fundamental Chemistry II* 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 114 Introduction to Chemical Engineering II 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CSCE 155N Computer Science I: Engineering &amp; Science Focus 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 107 Calculus II 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="asterisk">* The sequence CHEM 109, CHEM 110 is an acceptable alternative to CHEM 113, CHEM 114.</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Third Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 261 Organic Chemistry 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 263A Organic Chemistry Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 202 Mass &amp; Energy Balances 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 208 Calculus III 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 223 Engineering Statics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 18</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fourth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 262 Organic Chemistry 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 264A Organic Chemistry Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 223 Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ELEC 211 Elements of Electrical Engineering I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fifth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 221 Elementary Quantitative Analysis 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 323 Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 331 Equilibrium Stage Operations 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 332 Transport Operations I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective <span class="superscript">1</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Sixth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Advanced Chemistry 3-4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: CHEM 421, CHEM 431, CHEM 441, CHEM 471, or CHEM 481</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 312 Chemical Engineering Computation 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 330 Chemical Engineering Lab I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 333 Transport Operations II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Oral Communication Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose from ALEC 102, JGEN 300, or COMM 286 (SLO 2).</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15-16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Seventh Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 442 Chemical Reactor Engineering &amp; Design 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 452 Chemical Engineering Processing Economics &amp; Optimization 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 462 Automatic Process Control 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Technical Electives <span class="superscript">2</span> 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective <span class="superscript">1</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 18</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Eighth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 430 Chemical Engineering Lab II 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 453 Chemical Engineering Process Design 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 460 Automatic Process Control Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 400 Professional Ethics &amp; Social Responsibility 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Technical Elective <span class="superscript">2</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective <span class="superscript">1</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Credit Hours Required 131-132</p>
<p class="asterisk"><span class="superscript">1</span> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</p>
<p class="asterisk"><span class="superscript">2</span> The 9 hours of technical electives must include at least 3 credit hours of engineering science. All must be approved by the adviser.</p>
<p class="title-1">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text-no-indent">Special emphasis options available in the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering include:</p>
<ul>
<li class="bullet-1">biotechnology/bioengineering</li>
<li class="bullet-1">environmental engineering</li>
<li class="bullet-1">materials engineering</li>
<li class="bullet-1">mathematics and statistics</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-2">Technical Electives</p>
<p class="basic-text">The purpose of technical electives is to provide the student with an opportunity to gain new knowledge in an area of engineering or science beyond the basic undergraduate chemical engineering program. The technical electives may be in engineering design, engineering science, physical science, life science, and/or math.</p>
<ul>
<li class="bullet-1">A minimum of 9 credit hours of technical electives are required. This must include at least 3 credit hours of engineering science.</li>
<li class="bullet-1">All technical electives must be approved by a departmental academic adviser prior to registration for the course.</li>
<li class="bullet-1">Students are expected to complete their technical elective requirements during their junior and senior years with corresponding level of courses.</li>
<li class="bullet-1">With the pre-approval of the student’s academic adviser, a maximum of 3 credit hours of CHME 499 Senior Problems or CHME 499H Honors Thesis may be applied toward the technical electives requirement.</li>
<li class="bullet-1">Introductory 100-level courses are not accepted as technical electives.</li>
<li class="bullet-1">Advanced Placement (AP) high school classes are not allowed as technical electives.</li>
<li class="bullet-1">Courses lacking a quantitative physical science foundation such as accounting, marketing, economics, or law are normally not acceptable as technical electives.</li>
<li class="bullet-1">Students are strongly encouraged to select their technical electives from the following list. Course(s) may be taken outside of this list with approval of a departmental academic adviser prior to registration for the course.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-3">Biotechnology/Bioengineering/Chemistry</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 431/831 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism (BIOC 431, BIOS 431/831) (4 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 432/832 Gene Expression &amp; Replication (BIOC 432, BIOS 432/832) (2 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 441 Inorganic Chemistry (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 471 Physical Chemistry (4 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 481 Physical Chemistry I (4 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 482 Physical Chemistry II (4 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 486/886 Advanced Topics in Biophysical Chemistry (BIOC 486, BIOS 486/886) (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 473/873 Biochemical Engineering (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 474/874 Advanced Biochemical Engineering (2-6 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 312 Microbiology (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 206 General Genetics (4 cr)</p>
<p class="title-3">Environmental Engineering</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 455/855 or CIVE 455/855 Nonpoint Source Pollution Control Engineering (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 489 Air Pollution, Assessment &amp; Control (3 cr) <span class="requirement-ital">(See CHME 492 for course description.)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 326 Introduction to Environmental Engineering (BSEN 326) (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 327 Environmental Engineering Lab (BSEN 327) (1 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 421/821 Hazardous Waste Management &amp; Treatment (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 422/822 Pollution Prevention: Principles &amp; Practices (BSEN 422/822) (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 424/824 Solid Waste Management Engineering (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 421/821 Analytical Chemistry (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 423/823 Analytical Chemistry Lab (2 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENVR 489 Environmental Studies Seminar (1 cr)</p>
<p class="title-3">Materials Engineering</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHME 482/882 Polymers (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATL 360 Elements of Materials Science [ES] (4 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATL 460 Mechanical Aspects of Materials (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATL 462/862 X-Ray Diffraction (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATL 469/869 Physical Materials Systems (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATL 471/871 Electron Microscopy of Materials (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATL 473/873 Corrosion (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 325 Mechanics of Elastic Bodies (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 381 Elements of Computer-aided Design (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 422/822 Introduction to Physics &amp; Chemistry of Solids (ELEC 422/822) (3 cr)</p>
<p class="title-3">Mathematics and Statistics</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 314/814 Linear Algebra (Matrix Theory) (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 322/822 Advanced Calculus (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 324/824 Introduction to Partial Differential Equations (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">STAT 380 Statistics &amp; Applications (MATH 380) (3 cr)</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">GPA Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">Any student in the chemical and biomolecular engineering program whose grade point average in required chemical and biomolecular engineering courses is less than 2.4 will need special permission of the department to be admitted to the required CHME courses the following year.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>
<p class="title-1">University Honors Program</p>
<p class="basic-text">For those students who have been admitted to the University Honors Program, junior- and senior-level chemical and biomolecular engineering classes are available as honors-designated classes (i.e., CHME xxxH) on a “contract basis” between the student and the instructor with approval by the department faculty. The requirement of an honors thesis research project is fulfilled by completion of a minimum of 3 credits of CHME 499H (Honors Thesis) under the direction of a department faculty member. Additional information on the University Honors Program, including admission requirements, can be found in the Honors Program section.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>