<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Child Development/Early Childhood Education 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="child-development-early-childhood-education-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Child Development/Early Childhood Education</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Child Development/Early Childhood Education</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Val Wiemeyer</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">These students are prepared to work effectively with children in a variety of settings such as childcare programs, nonprofit organizations, and family childcare.</p>
<p class="title-1">General Information</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College offers undergraduate programs leading to a bachelor of science in education and human sciences degree in more than 40 different teaching endorsements. Some students in other UNL colleges choose to seek certification, completing a degree in their home college while meeting all requirements for teacher certification in the College of Education and Human Sciences.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Early field placement in public and private schools is a nationally recognized hallmark of the teacher education program in the College of Education and Human Sciences. While internships are a valuable enhancement to many students’ education, in the College of Education and Human Sciences, practicum experiences and student teaching are a critical and essential part of the <span>teacher education</span><span> curriculum </span><span>and must be successfully completed<span>. </span><span><span></span>A student’s inability to complete these field experiences, for any reason, may adversely impact the candidate’s ability to gain admission into the College or maintain enrollment in a teacher preparation program. Students unlikely or unable to complete the field experience may be counseled to seek other opportunities where success is more attainable. (See “</span><span>Criminal History Background Check Requirement</span><span>” and “Professional and Ethical Behavior” under the OTHER heading for additional information with respect to behaviors impacting field experience participation.)</span></span></p>
<p class="basic-text">Teacher education endorsements (or majors) are divided into field endorsements or single-subject endorsements. Field endorsements certify the candidate to teach a broader range of courses compared to single-subject endorsements, which certify the candidate to teach in one subject area only. Consequently, a teacher holding a field endorsement is typically more marketable than a teacher holding a single-subject endorsement.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Candidates may also elect to complete requirements for supplemental endorsements; these are additional endorsements that can be added to a field or single-subject endorsement but cannot be taken alone. Supplemental endorsements require additional credit hours beyond those needed for the first endorsement (field or single-subject). Teachers may increase their marketability by adding supplemental endorsements.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may also choose to complete requirements for two endorsements simultaneously. Completing a second endorsement will require additional credit hours beyond those required for the first endorsement. Often the completion of two endorsements requires more than 120 credit hours of course work and may require additional semesters of course work. Students may contact the College Student Services Center, 105 Henzlik Hall, or their adviser, for assistance in deciding whether to complete: field or single-subject endorsements, one or more supplemental endorsements, or multiple endorsements.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Endorsement Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Degree at a Glance</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Requirements 30-34</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 1. ENGL 101, ENGL 150,ENGL 151, ENGL 254 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 2. ALEC 102, COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 210, COMM 283, or COMM 286 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 3. ECON 215, EDPS 459, MATH 104, MATH 106, MATH 107,  MATH 203, MATH 208; or STAT 218 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 4. ANTH 242 &amp; ANTH 242L; CHEM 105, CHEM 109, CHEM 110, CHEM 113; ENTO 115 &amp; ENTO 116; GEOG 155; GEOL 101, GEOL 103; LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L; LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L; METR 100; NRES 108; PHYS 141, PHYS 142, PHYS 151 &amp; PHYS 153, PHYS 260 &amp; PHYS 262; or TMFD 206 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 5. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 6. CYAF 160 <span class="requirement-ital">(CYAF Professional Core)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 7. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 8. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 9. CYAF 495 <span class="requirement-ital">(CYAF Professional Core)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 10. CYAF 497A <span class="requirement-ital">(Education Core)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Supporting Courses 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">LIBR 110 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF Core Requirements 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CYAF 222, CYAF 333, CYAF 380, CYAF 382, CYAF 488 (3 hrs ea) 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Education Core Requirements 39-40</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CYAF 210, CYAF 271, CYAF 374, CYAF 474 (3 hrs ea) 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CYAF 270 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CYAF 210L, CYAF 270L, CYAF 271L, CYAF 374L, (1 hr ea) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CYAF 497A (3 hrs are met in ACE 10) 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">NUTR 100 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course:</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">EDPS 462, SLPA 150, SPED 201, SPED 303, SPED 480 or PSYC 380</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select two courses:</span> 6-7</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">CYAF 371 &amp; CYAF 371L or CYAF 383 or CYAF 384</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Concentration Area <span class="requirement-ital">(Choose one concentration)</span> 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Program Management</span> (12 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 477 (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course:</span> EDAD 421, ALEC 202, or ALEC 302 (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select two courses:</span> ACCT 202, ECON 210, MNGT 121, MNGT 320, MNGT 321, or ENTR 291 (6 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Nature Education</span> (12 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 384 (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select three courses:</span> ANTH 473, CYAF 493, BIOS 232, ENTO 115 &amp; ENTO 116, ENTO 109, HORT 200, LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L, NRES 220 &amp; NRES 222, SOCI 446, or ENVR 201 (9 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Infants and Toddlers</span> (13 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 371 (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 371L (1 hr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 497I (6 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">SPED 463 (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Pre-Graduate School/Research</span> (12 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 498 (3-6 hrs) (Suggested: UCARE proposal)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select two courses:</span> EDPS 459, EDPS 470, PSYC 350, PSYC 450, SOCI 205, SOCI 206, SOCI 407 (6 hrs) (Research Methods)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"> Select <span class="requirement-ital">one course from:</span> PSYC 270, PSYC 470, Nature Education electives (see above) (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">Suggested: UCARE proposal</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Electives 18-23</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 120</p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for CYAF courses. All CYAF courses must be taken for a grade (not Pass/No Pass).</p>
<p class="title-1">ACE Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>

<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Criminal History Background Check Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS), along with the public and private schools and community agencies who provide services or programs for pre-school or school aged youth, are all keenly attuned to the safety of children. We have the responsibility to ensure that our students who interact with individuals served by schools or other agencies meet a high level of personal, professional and ethical behavior.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Nebraska Department of Education policy requires that a person with any felony conviction or a misdemeanor conviction involving assault, abuse, neglect, or sexual misconduct shall not be allowed to participate in pre-student teaching laboratory and classroom experiences or student teach without approval of the State Board of Education. In addition, the Department of Health and Human Services has created its own set of standards that apply to all individuals working in any capacity with pre-school children who are not yet in kindergarten. To comply with these two sets of standards, the College of Education and Human Sciences will require each student in a teacher education program to complete two formal reviews of their criminal history, which is conducted by the approved CEHS vender. The first review will be completed during the first semester of the individual’s entry into the College. This must be completed before one’s first field experience. The second criminal history background check will take place as part of the student teaching application process, culminating experience, or internship. Each student is responsible for the cost of the two criminal history reviews. If more than three years elapse after the initial background check is conducted, the College reserves the right to require that one or more additional background checks be completed. Eighteen months after the initial Criminal History Background Check, undergraduate students are required to complete the CEHS self-disclosure report. Graduate students will be required to complete the self-disclosure report at the same time the initial background check is conducted.</p>
<p class="basic-text">If a student has any felony or any misdemeanor charges or convictions, as reported on the background check, the student will be contacted by the College and may be required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Field Experience. This meeting will be held so that the student can receive guidance with respect to the impact of the charge or conviction on the student’s future in the College and one’s ability to find success in the profession of education. If any new charges or convictions are acquired after either background check, the student is required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Field Experience within two weeks after the event occurs. Failure to disclose any new information concerning one’s criminal history can lead to removal from the program. A student’s ability to continue to participate in any teacher education program in the College will be based on the type and number of convictions, the recentness of their occurrence, and whether or not they are in violation of the requirements of the Department of Health and Human Services and/or the Nebraska Department of Education standards as they apply to working with pre-school and school age youth.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences aims to train and graduate teachers of the highest caliber possible, and therefore, the standards the College sets for its students may be more stringent than the rules the Department of Education sets for field experience. A student should not assume that merely because the State Board of Education would approve placement in the field, that the College is willing to make such a placement, or that a participating partner school is willing to accept the student’s placement into its midst.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The consequences of one conviction compared to another may vary significantly, depending upon the facts underlying the convictions. In some instances, the behavior associated with the conviction may be so egregious as to render placement in a field experience virtually impossible. In such instances, termination or long-term suspension from a teaching program may be appropriate. In other instances, a responsible passage of time without further criminal incident may indicate that the student has matured and is ready to reconvene his or her education. Consequences will very likely be different from case to case, as each of these difficult matters is unique. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that the safety of children in the classroom, the best interest of the student, and the reputation of the College, are all recognized and promoted. Failure to honestly disclose a conviction may be cause for disciplinary action including possible removal from the program. Students willing to honestly address the challenges that arise from the past mistakes are more likely to reach a favorable outcome, than those who further jeopardize their integrity with a lie.</p>
<p class="title-2">Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to criminal convictions, other non-criminal behaviors which involve risks that are unacceptable for future teachers and the children charged to their care; demonstrate a lack of professionalism and good judgment; and evidence a disregard for one’s personal reputation, the integrity of the College and the teaching profession, may bring into question a student’s ability to be successful in an education career. Before engaging in such questionable behavior, students must consider how the College, the profession, educational employer, parents of school-aged children, and the community which is the State of Nebraska, would perceive or evaluate the impact of that behavior with respect to the students’ ability to serve children. To be allowed to teach is a great honor and a great responsibility. Teaching is a profession that requires its potential candidates to be individuals of the highest integrity. Prospective teachers must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and for their students. They serve as important role models and mentors for children during very impressionable years. Teachers are responsible for the education, safety and well-being for anyone in their charge. Indeed, teachers hold the future of all in their care. Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences is most interested in training future teachers who show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act responsibly. These individuals must be able to serve as representatives of our College and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. These standards and practices also apply to individuals in CEHS programs intended to serve children in a community setting.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should the College, through the reasonable exercise of the judgment of its Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience, determine that a student’s individual behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons and others in the educational community, the College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to deny entry to or dismiss such a student from any program which leads to certification or to service of children in a community agency. More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum, pre-practicum, student teaching or similar field experience, since the interests and safety of the children, and young people present in the classroom, schools and other venues where these practicum experiences take place are paramount.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Problematic behaviors, which the College of Education and Human Sciences reasonably determines renders the candidate a risk to the educational community or demonstrates a likelihood of illegal activity, may be established by any credible means, including the facts surrounding a record of arrests and/or convictions.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Similarly, behaviors which result in a finding by a court or other governmental body that the individual is:</p>
<ul>
<li>a mentally ill and dangerous person;</li>
<li>mentally incompetent to stand trial;</li>
<li>acquitted of criminal charges because of insanity;</li>
<li>an incapacitated person;</li>
<li>a person in need of a guardian or conservator, or;</li>
<li>a person unable to manage his or her property due to mental illness, mental deficiency, or chronic use of drugs or chronic intoxication are the kind of behaviors which are likely to disqualify a candidate from participation in practicum experiences and other College of Education and Human Sciences programs.</li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">Similar to the discussion concerning criminal convictions above, the consequences for unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will very likely be different in each case, due to the unique circumstances involved in each matter. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that safety in the classroom, the reputation of the College, and the best interest of the student, are all recognized and promoted.</p>
<p class="title-2">Appeal to the Dean</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience with respect to a criminal behavior matter, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing within no greater than ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student’s written appeal shall clearly explain to the Dean the basis for the student’s appeal. The Dean will review the student’s basis for appeal, and is authorized, but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student’s written appeal. The Dean is authorized to collect such additional information as she or he deems necessary to review an investigation (including but not limited to the student’s educational records maintained by the College, other documentation, personal interviews and meetings with the student, College faculty, administration and staff, and others with relevant information). The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possibly, but in no case longer than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience or both, a written decision, which decision shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review within the University of Nebraska.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>