<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Civil Engineering 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="civil-engineering-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Civil Engineering</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Civil Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 130</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Karen Schurr</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Daniel Linzell</span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Dahab, Dvorak, Linzell,  Rilett, Tuan, Zhang</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Admiraal, Bartelt-Hunt, Guo, Jones, Khattak, Kim, Krause, Moussavi, Rohde, Stansbury, Szerszen</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Kilic, X. Li, Y. Li, Sharma, Steelman, Wood</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Department of Civil Engineering offers a complete undergraduate program to students on the Lincoln and Omaha campuses of the University of Nebraska. Curriculum requirements are nearly identical on both campuses. The goal is to prepare students for entry into the civil engineering profession immediately after graduation or to pursue graduate-level work.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The general educational objectives of the University of Nebraska–Lincoln civil engineering undergraduate program are to prepare our graduates to:</p>
<ul>
<li><span class="basic-text-bold">APPLY</span> their solid foundation in civil engineering toward the practice, advanced-degree education and a broad range of career choices;</li>
<li><span class="basic-text-bold">PERFORM</span> technical analysis or design of a complex system, component or process as acting representatives of governmental agencies, private consulting engineering firms, research organizations or industry;</li>
<li><span class="basic-text-bold">EXPLAIN</span> engineering concepts accurately and effectively to inform technical and non-technical audiences using appropriate verbal, written, virtual and graphical means;</li>
<li><span class="basic-text-bold">APPLY</span> basic project management and business concepts and processes;</li>
<li><span class="basic-text-bold">ENGAGE</span> in lifelong learning to foster technical growth, ethical conduct, and the practice of professional communication, teamwork and leadership skills; and</li>
<li><span class="basic-text-bold">OBTAIN</span> licensure in a profession such as civil engineering.</li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">As a professional discipline, civil engineering is closely related to the total human environment. In all professional endeavors, the civil engineer must consider ecological effects as well as the social, economic, and political needs of people. The civil engineer designs systems to control and manage our water resources to provide electric power, agricultural irrigation, flood control, recreation, water supplies and wastewater treatment systems for our urban and industrial needs.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The civil engineer plans, designs, and constructs our transportation systems including highways, railroads, waterways, and airports to connect rural, urban, and industrial areas. The civil engineer also designs and constructs housing and facilities for recreational, industrial, and commercial complexes, which comprise the urban environment. It is the responsibility of civil engineering to minimize air, water, and land pollution and protect the environment.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Instructional emphasis is placed on fundamental engineering principles derived from mathematics, chemistry, physics, and engineering science. These subjects provide a sound background for the subsequent introductory courses in environmental, geotechnical, structural, transportation, and water resources engineering. Students are introduced to design concepts in the freshman year. Design is incorporated throughout the curriculum that culminates in two senior-level courses, CIVE 385 Professional Practice and Management in Civil Engineering and CIVE 489 Senior Design Project.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Instructional laboratories in environmental engineering, hydraulics, geotechnical engineering, structures, and surveying provide each student with an opportunity to learn, through individual participation, the operation of the testing equipment used to establish engineering design criteria and to monitor and model engineering facilities such as water and wastewater treatment plants, river control systems, and structural systems.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Some students may desire to obtain a degree in construction management in addition to the degree in civil engineering. Because some civil engineering courses require prerequisites beyond those required for similar construction management courses, students should obtain the civil engineering degree first. Advising will be done by a civil engineering faculty member familiar with the construction management curriculum. After completing the civil engineering degree, the student will move to the construction management department to complete requirements for the second undergraduate degree in construction management.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Departments of Civil Engineering and Architecture have a joint program awarding licensing degrees in both fields of study. A bachelors degree in civil engineering and masters degree in architecture are awarded, after approximately seven years of study. The departments work with individual students in tailoring a joint degree program. More information can be obtained from either department office.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR DEPARTMENT ADMISSION</p>
<p>Professional Admission Requirements</p>


<p class="MsoNormal" style="text-align: center;">Criteria for Professional Admission to the Civil Engineering Degree Program</p>


<p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; line-height: normal;">Pre-professionally admitted College of Engineering students majoring in civil engineering must have their academic records reviewed for professional admission to the Civil Engineering Degree Program during the fall, spring or summer immediately following the term in which:</p>
<p class="MsoListParagraphCxSpFirst" style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-indent: -0.25in; line-height: normal;"><span style="font-family: Symbol;"><span>·<span style="font: 7pt 'Times New Roman';">         </span></span></span>at least 43 credits applicable to the degree have been earned, and</p>
<p class="MsoListParagraphCxSpLast" style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-indent: -0.25in; line-height: normal;"><span style="font-family: Symbol;"><span>·<span style="font: 7pt 'Times New Roman';">         </span></span></span><span style="color: black;">PHYS 211, MECH 223, MECH 325 and MECH 373 </span>have been completed with “C” letter grades or better.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; line-height: normal;">It is likely a student may need to complete four full semesters of credits applying to the Program before these requirements are able to be completed.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; line-height: normal;"> </p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; line-height: normal;">To be <span style="text-decoration: underline;">considered</span> for professional admission, the following College of Engineering general criteria must be met:</p>
<p class="MsoListParagraphCxSpFirst" style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-indent: -0.25in; line-height: normal;"><span style="font-family: Symbol;"><span>·<span style="font: 7pt 'Times New Roman';">         </span></span></span>Completion of at least 12 credits (one semester) after admission to the College of Engineering,</p>
<p class="MsoListParagraphCxSpMiddle" style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-indent: -0.25in; line-height: normal;"><span style="font-family: Symbol;"><span>·<span style="font: 7pt 'Times New Roman';">         </span></span></span>Cumulative grade point average of 2.5 or greater, and</p>
<p class="MsoListParagraphCxSpLast" style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-indent: -0.25in; line-height: normal;"><span style="font-family: Symbol;"><span>·<span style="font: 7pt 'Times New Roman';">         </span></span></span>No more than two declined admission requests to other engineering majors.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; line-height: normal;"> </p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; line-height: normal;">Professional admission approval to the Civil Engineering Degree Program requires the following Departmental specific criteria must also be achieved:</p>
<p class="MsoListParagraphCxSpFirst" style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-indent: -0.25in; line-height: normal;"><span style="font-family: Symbol;"><span>·<span style="font: 7pt 'Times New Roman';">         </span></span></span>Earn a “C” letter grade or better in PHYS 211, MECH 223, MECH 325 and MECH 373, <span style="text-decoration: underline;">and</span></p>
<p class="MsoListParagraphCxSpLast" style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-indent: -0.25in; line-height: normal;"><span style="font-family: Symbol;"><span>·<span style="font: 7pt 'Times New Roman';">         </span></span></span>Earn a “C” letter grade or better in <span style="text-decoration: underline;">ALL</span> math, science and engineering courses required for the Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering degree <span style="text-decoration: underline;">if</span>the cumulative grade point average is less than 2.700.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; line-height: normal;"> </p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; line-height: normal;">Students approved for professional admission to the Program are then allowed to take 400-level civil engineering courses to complete their degree.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Requirements for the Degree of Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering (Lincoln and Omaha campuses)</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students must have completed the equivalent of the fourth semester before admission to the civil engineering program. Transfer students must have all transfer hours accepted before being considered for the degree program.</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">First Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 112 Introduction to Civil Engineering 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CSCE 155N Computer Science I: Engineering &amp; Science Focus 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 10 Freshman Engineering Seminar 0</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Chemistry Elective 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Chemistry elective must be CHEM 111, CHEM 113, or both CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 (8 hrs).</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Second Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 130 Computer-aided Design 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">MECH 130 is an acceptable substitute.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 221 Geometric Control Systems 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Third Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 223 Engineering Statics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">CHEM 221 is an acceptable substitute.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 17</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fourth Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 361 Highway Engineering 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 221 Differential Equations for Engineers 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 325 Mechanics of Elastic Bodies 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 373 Engineering Dynamics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fifth Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 310 Fluid Mechanics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 319 Hydraulics Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 326 Introduction to Environmental Engineering 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 327 Environmental Engineering Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 341 Introduction to Structural Engineering 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 380 Statistics &amp; Applications <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> IMSE 321 Engineering Statistics &amp; <br />Data Analysis 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Sixth Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 334 Introduction to Geotechnical Engineering 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 352 Introduction to Water Resources Engineering 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 378 Materials of Construction 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 385 Professional Practice &amp; Management 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Seventh Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Technical Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">A description of allowable technical elective courses is available from the civil engineering department.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Design Electives 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">A full list of approved elective courses is available from the department.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Science Elective 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Approved science elective courses include BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L, CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253, and GEOL 101.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 498 Special Topics 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">A list of allowable alternative courses is available from the civil engineering department.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 17</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Eighth Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 489 Senior Design Project 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Technical Electives 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">A description of allowable technical elective courses is available from the civil engineering department.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Design Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">A full list of approved elective courses is available from the civil engineering department.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Professional Development Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">A full list of approved professional development elective courses is available from the civil engineering department.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 18</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Credit Hours Required 130</p>
<p class="title-3">Design Electives</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 419 Flow Systems Design (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 425 Process Design in Water Supply &amp; Wastewater Treatment (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 426 Design of Water Treatment Facilities (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 427 Design of Wastewater Treatment &amp; Disposal Facilities (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 436 Foundation Engineering (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 440 Reinforced Concrete Design I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 441 Steel Design I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 452 Water Resources Development (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 462 Highway Design (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 463 Traffic Engineering (3 cr)</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>