<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Classics &amp; Religious Studies 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="classics-religious-studies-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Classics &amp; Religious Studies</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Classics &amp; Religious Studies</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes - Classics; Religious Studies</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Yaroslav Komarovski (Religious Studies); Thomas Rinkevich (Classics)</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Stephen G. Burnett,</span> 237 Andrews Hall</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Burnett, S. Crawford, Lahey, Turner</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Athanassopoulos (anthropology), Duncan, Gorman, Komarovski, Rinkevich, Wood</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span> Murray</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Senior Lecturer:</span> D. Crawford</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> Lippman</p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="no-style-override">The courses and majors in the Department of Classics and Religious Studies have been designed to meet the needs of three categories of students: </span></p>
<p class="numbered-list"><span class="no-style-override">1. Those who wish to pursue the subjects for general educational purposes; </span></p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Those who plan to major and do graduate work in classics or religious studies;</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Those who want to become high school Latin teachers.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Any student who studies classics and religious studies will acquire the basic elements of a liberal education and a beneficial background for study in professional schools.</p>
<p class="title-1">The Major in Classics and Religious Studies</p>
<p class="basic-text">The classics and religious studies major offers a wide range of courses in the civilization, religions and culture of the ancient Mediterranean world, as well as ancient and modern religions broadly conceived. It is an interdisciplinary major with two areas of emphasis, one in Classics and one in Religious Studies. Depending on your chosen emphasis, this major is designed to provide you with an excellent background to pursue graduate work in classical languages and literature, classical archaeology, ancient history, religious studies, literary scholarship, and other humane disciplines. In addition, the broad and humane education offered by the major serves as excellent preparation for careers in law, medicine, journalism, ministry, business and education.</p>
<p class="title-2">The Major in Classical Languages</p>
<p class="basic-text">This major is intended primarily for those interested in graduate study of the Greco-Roman world. As competency in both Greek and Latin is requisite for graduate study, students must take courses in both languages to complete the major. This major is also appropriate for students who wish to undertake advanced study in related fields such as linguistics, or to teach high school Latin.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Education Abroad.</span> Advanced undergraduates are encouraged to further their education abroad. Students may choose from among several established programs that cover a full academic year, semester, or summer. Most ancient studies programs offer a variety of courses in classics, ancient and modern languages, and history. In addition, students are introduced to the archaeology and art of the culture by frequent trips to sites and museums. These programs include, but are not limited to the American School of Classical Studies at Athens, College Year in Athens, the Intercollegiate Center for Classical Studies in Rome, and The Hebrew University in Jerusalem.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Also, UNL faculty frequently offer archaeological study tours to Greece, Italy, Turkey and Egypt during the summers. The department administers the Clarence A. Forbes Fellowship for education abroad. Further information on education abroad scholarships and programs may be found at http://educationabroad.unl.edu.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Core Requirements</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 3 hrs from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CLAS 180 Classical Mythology (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CLAS 121 Classical Antiquity in Popular Culture (AHIS 121) (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CLAS 141 Spectacle &amp; Entertainment in the Roman World (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 3 hrs from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">RELG 108 World Religions (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">RELG 118 Introduction to Hinduism, Buddhism, &amp; Daoism (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">RELG 150 Explaining Religion (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">RELG 181 Judaism, Christianity, &amp; Islam (3 cr)</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">An emphasis in either Classics or Religious Studies is required (described below). Nine hours must be taken at the 300 level or above. No more than 6 hours of independent study may count toward the major.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required from time to time to complete written exit surveys and to compile portfolios of selected work in major courses. All such work will be assessed in ways that assure student anonymity. The Classics and Religious Studies undergraduate advisers will inform students of the scheduling and format of assessment activities.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Results of participation in these assessment activities will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</p>
<p class="title-1">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Emphasis in Classics</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to the core courses, 24 hours of courses with the prefix CLAS, GREK or LATN (language courses above the 199 level), or courses which are crosslisted with CLAS. Related courses offered by other departments may count toward the major. See degree audit or academic adviser in Classics for approved courses.</p>
<p class="title-2">Emphasis in Religious Studies</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to the core courses, 24 hours of courses with the prefix RELG. Of the 24 hours, at least 6 hours at the 200 level, 6 hours at the 300 level and 3 hours at the 400 level Religious Studies (RELG) courses, or cross-listed Religious Studies courses. Related courses offered by other departments may count toward the major. See degree audit or academic adviser in Religious Studies for approved courses. The student may count up to 6 hours above the 199 level in Greek, Latin, Hebrew or Arabic toward the Religious Studies major. Students also have the opportunity, through a cooperative agreement, to take selected courses at Nebraska Wesleyan University in ethics, theology and world religions. These courses are identified with a “w” as part of the course number.</p>
<p class="title-1">Minor Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">A minor is required and may be any minor approved by the College.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">Departmental permission to take major or minor courses for Pass/No Pass credit must be obtained. Request forms are available in the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="title-1">Minor in Classics</p>
<p class="basic-text">A minimum of 18 hours of courses with the prefix CLAS, GREK or LATN (language courses above the 199 level) or which are cross-listed with CLAS. At least 6 hours must be above 299.</p>
<p class="title-1">Minor in Religious Studies</p>
<p class="basic-text">A minimum of 18 hours of courses with the prefix RELG, including at least 3 hours at the 100 level, 3 hours at the 200 level, and 3 hours at the 300 or 400 level. The student may count up to 3 hours above the 199 level in Greek, Latin, Hebrew or Arabic toward the Religious Studies minor.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>