<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Computer Engineering (Lincoln) 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="computer-engineering-lincoln-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Computer Engineering (Lincoln)</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Computer Engineering (Lincoln)</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 125</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISER:</span> Charles Riedesel</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Steve Goddard</span>, 256 Avery Hall</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Deogun, Dwyer, Elbaum, Goddard, Jiang, Ramamurthy, Reichenbach, Revesz, Rothermel, Samal, Seth (emeritus), Sincovec (emeritus), Surkan (emeritus)</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Choueiry, Cohen, Costello (emeritus), Lu, Scott, Soh, Srisa-An, Variyam, Vuran, Xu</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Detweiler, Sarma, Yu, Zhong</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Research Associate Professor:</span> Swanson</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> Riedesel</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturers:</span> Bourke, Suing</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Phone:</span> 402-472-2401</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">FAX:</span> 402-472-7767</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website: </span>http://cse.unl.edu</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Email:</span> info@cse.unl.edu</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The UNL Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) Department offers Nebraska’s only comprehensive program of higher education, research, and service outreach in computer science and computer engineering.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The CSE Department offers a challenging baccalaureate degree program in computer engineering that prepares graduates for professional practice in commerce, industry, and government, and for post-graduate education to enter careers in research and academia. The BS degree in computer engineering is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The focus of the program is integrated hardware/software system design. Increasingly, diverse systems, products, and processes depend on computers for design, control, data acquisition, and other functions. The computer engineer possesses the range of expertise to have an integrated view of computer-based systems and to make global design decisions.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Consistent with this focus, the computer engineering baccalaureate program develops:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">The ability to view computer systems as an integrated continuum of technologies and to engage in integrated system-level design. Studies include mathematical foundations, digital logic and technologies, programming and software design, system components and design, application of theory, experimentation, design tools and techniques, and documentation and maintenance.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">The ability to work with professionals in related fields over the spectrum of system design. Studies include natural sciences, electricity/electronics, and programming and software design.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Skills to quickly adapt to new work environments, assimilate new information, and solve new problems. Studies develop skills in the application of theory, experimentation, design tools and techniques, documentation and maintenance, and technical communications.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">The background and perspective for post-graduate education. Studies develop skills in the application of theory, experimentation, and life-long learning/professional development.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Abilities to work in conformance with societal needs and expectations. Studies include liberal arts and ethical/social issues.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1">Insight into the world of practicing professionals, for collaborations, mutual support, and representing the profession to government and society. Studies include teamwork and life-long learning/professional development, plus students are provided multiple opportunities for involvement in organizations such as ACM, UPE, and IEEE.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The CSE department also offers a degree of bachelor of science in computer science through the College of Arts and Sciences. All students majoring in the CSE department should see their advisers during their first semester to make sure they understand the differences in the requirements of the two programs. Majors should consult with their advisers each semester for registration advising.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Introductory Courses.</span> Entering students may select from several introductory courses according to their interests and as indicated by the CSE Placement Examination. The Computer Science I courses (CSCE 155A, CSCE 155H, CSCE 155E, CSCE 155N, and CSCE 155T) all provide a foundation in designing and programming computing solutions and prepare students for more advanced CSCE courses, including CSCE 156. These courses are designed to meet different interests. CSCE 155A is designed for students majoring in computer science. CSCE 155H is for honors students. CSCE 155E emphasizes computing for systems engineering, such as control systems, mobile computing, and embedded devices and is designed for students majoring in computer engineering. CSCE 155N focuses on numerical and graphical computation in engineering and science, such as applied physics, working with time-sequence data, and matrix applications. CSCE 155T focuses on data and information processing, such as document or database applications, online commerce, or bioinformatics. CSCE 156 is for students with a background in designing and programming computing solutions, such as is provided by Computer Science I. CSCE 101 is for students seeking a broad introduction to computer science with brief instruction in computer programming.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Programs.</span> The CSE Department offers several graduate degree programs: master of science in computer science, master of science in computer science with computer engineering specialization, master of science in computer science with bioinformatics specialization, doctor of philosophy in computer science, doctor of philosophy in engineering with computer engineering specialization, doctor of philosophy in computer science with bioinformatics specialization, and joint doctor of philosophy in computer science and mathematics. See the <span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span> for details.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSION</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Other Admission Requirements</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Computer Science Placement Policy</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The required Computer Science and Engineering Placement Exam (CSEPE) is used to assess students’ background in problem solving, computer programming, and relevant mathematics. Students who have not taken a recognized UNL or transfer prerequisite course with a grade of C or better must take the CSEPE.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Specific Major Requirements</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>First Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 155E Computer Science I: Systems Engineering Focus* 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGR 10 Freshman Engineering Seminar 0</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Taking both CSCE 230 and CSCE 488 satisfies ACE outcome 8.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Second Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 156 Computer Science II* 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 235 Introduction to Discrete Structures* 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 251 Unix Programming Environment 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 16</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Third Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 230 Computer Organization* 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 230L Computer Organization Lab* 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 215 Electronics &amp; Circuits I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 235 Introductory Electrical Lab I 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Science Requirement 4-5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Must be a course designed for science/engineering majors with a laboratory component. Choose from: CHEM 109 (4 hrs) or PHYS 213 &amp; PHYS 223 (5 hrs, required for students electing VLSI Design as their focus area).</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 16-17</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Fourth Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 236 Embedded Systems 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 310 Data Structures &amp; Algorithms* 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 216 Electronics &amp; Circuits II 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 236 Introductory Electrical Lab II 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 16</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Fifth Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 351 Operating System Kernels 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 361 Software Engineering 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 304 Signals &amp; Systems I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 316 Electronics &amp; Circuits III 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Open Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Taking both CSCE 230 and CSCE 488 satisfies ACE outcome 8.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 18</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Sixth Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 335 Digital Logic Design 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 462 Communication Networks 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 305 Probability Theory &amp; Introduction to Random Processes 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 314 Applied Linear Algebra 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Technical Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Seventh Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 340 Numerical Analysis I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 488 Computer Engineering Professional Development**&amp;*** 2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>JGEN 300 Technical Communication II 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Technical Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Taking both CSCE 230 and CSCE 488 satisfies ACE outcome 8.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 14</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Eighth Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 489 Computer Engineering Senior Design Project**&amp;*** 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Technical Electives 9</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Taking both CSCE 230 and CSCE 488 satisfies ACE outcome 8.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total Credit Hours Required 125</p>
			<p class="asterisk" xml:lang='en-us'>* As part of the required core courses in computer science and engineering, students in the J. S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management take RAIK 183H, RAIK 184H, RAIK 283H, RAIK 284H, and RAIK 383H instead of CSCE 155E, CSCE 156, CSCE 230, CSCE 230L, CSCE 235, CSCE 310 and CSCE 361.</p>
			<p class="asterisk" xml:lang='en-us'>** Students in the J. S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management may substitute RAIK 381H or RAIK 382H for CSCE 488, and RAIK 302H or RAIK 402H for CSCE 489 with advance approval from both the Design Studio and Computer Engineering Senior Design instructors.</p>
			<p class="asterisk" xml:lang='en-us'>*** Double majors in electrical engineering may elect to take either of the senior design course sequences (CSCE 488 then CSCE 489 or ELEC 494 then ELEC 495). Students not taking both CSCE 230 and CSCE 488 must satisfy ACE outcome 8 with another course(s).</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>The computer engineering degree requires 125 hours of course work. There is a set of required core courses in computer science and engineering (41 credit hours), electrical engineering (17 credit hours), mathematics (19 credit hours), and physics and chemistry (12-13 credit hours). In addition, students select 3 credit hours of open elective and 15 credit hours of technical electives with the focus areas option as described below.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A computer engineering major has the option of declaring a focus in one of the areas listed below. Students who, in addition to completing all computer engineering required courses listed above, receive a grade of C or better in each of the three technical elective courses from one focus area below, will receive a notice from the Department of Computer Science and Engineering stating that they received the degree bachelor of science in computer engineering with a focus in their chosen area(s). The focus areas are:</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">Embedded Systems and Robotics:</span> CSCE 436 (required), CSCE 439 or MECH 453, CSCE 430, CSCE 438, CSCE 476, ELEC 479</li>
				<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">VLSI Design: </span>CSCE 434 or ELEC 470 (required), CSCE 421, CSCE 430, ELEC 416, ELEC 421, ELEC 475. Students choosing this focus area must take PHYS 213 and PHYS 223 as the science requirement.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">Signal Processing and Communications:</span> ELEC 462, ELEC 463, ELEC 464, ELEC 465, CSCE 438, CSCE 463, CSCE 472, CSCE 473.</li>
				<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">High-Performance Computing:</span> CSCE 430 (required), CSCE 432, CSCE 435, CSCE 437, CSCE 455, CSCE 456. </li>
			</ul>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>The 15 credit hours can be taken from exactly one focus area or from any combination of the focus areas courses plus 300- or 400-level CSCE, ELEC, and RAIK courses, but subject to the following restrictions:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. At least 9 hours must be taken from CSCE and/or cross-listed courses in RAIK (namely, RAIK 384H, RAIK 301H, RAIK 302H, RAIK 401H, and RAIK 402H).</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. At least 9 hours must be taken at the 400 level.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. CSCE 390 and CSCE 490 have been pre-designated as not applying to the major and cannot count as technical electives.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. At most, 3 hours of independent study (CSCE 399, CSCE 498, ELEC 399, ELEC 499) may apply.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>5. At most, 6 hours of internship/practicum courses (CSCE 491<span class="no-style-override">, CSCE 493</span>, RAIK 301H, RAIK 302H, RAIK 401H, RAIK 402H) may apply.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>6. ELEC 494 and ELEC 495 may not apply (however, these may be substituted for CSCE 488 and CSCE 489).</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required in their senior year to complete a written exit survey. Results of that participation will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>C- and D Grades</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Applicants for formal admission to computer engineering must meet the usual college requirements plus a minimum grade rule on the following core courses (or their equivalents):</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Grades of C+ or higher in CSCE 155A, CSCE 155H, CSCE 155E, CSCE 155N, CSCE 155T, CSCE 156, CSCE 230, CSCE 230L, CSCE 235; ELEC 215, ELEC 235; MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 208; PHYS 211, PHYS 212</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
