<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Conflict & Conflict Resolution Minor 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="conflict-conflict-resolution-minor-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Conflict & Conflict Resolution Minor</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts & Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Conflict & Conflict Resolution Minor</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 24</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Fran Kaye</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair and Chief Adviser: Fran Kaye</span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Faculty:</span> Cahan (philosophy), Demers (anthropology and geography), Dienstbier (psychology), Hames (anthropology/geography), Leger (psychology), Maslowski (history), Potter (philosophy)</p>
<p class="basic-text">This program is concerned with violent conflict between social groups–the biological, ecological, economic, social, and political basis of such conflict and its relationship to religion, philosophy, and the arts. It examines the history of efforts to resolve or prevent violent conflicts through such means as armaments, negotiations, diplomacy, international law, and nonviolent resistance to violence.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="basic-text">The core course in conflict and conflict resolution (cross-listed as ANTH 261, POLS 261, PSYC 261 and SOCI 261) is required. In addition, students must take one course from six of the following seven groups:</p>
<p class="title-3">I. Evolution, Human Biology and Warfare</p>
<p class="list">ANTH 353 Anthropology of War</p>
<p class="list">BIOS 203 Bioethics</p>
<p class="list">BIOS 373/PSYC 373 Biopsychology</p>
<p class="title-3">II. The Social Unit, Aggression and Violence</p>
<p class="list">COMM 371 Communication in Negotiation &amp; Conflict Resolution</p>
<p class="list">HIST 303/803 United States Military History, 1607-1917</p>
<p class="list">HIST 304/804 United States Military History Since 1917</p>
<p class="list">PSYC 401 Psychology &amp; Law</p>
<p class="list">SOCI 201 Social Problems</p>
<p class="list">SOCI 415/815 Social Change</p>
<p class="list">SOCI 491/891 Political Sociology</p>
<p class="title-3">III. International Society</p>
<p class="list">HIST 347 America &amp; the World to 1914</p>
<p class="list">HIST 348 America &amp; the World Since 1914</p>
<p class="list">POLS 160 International Relations</p>
<p class="list">POLS 468/868 Organizing World Order</p>
<p class="list">POLS 469/869 International Law</p>
<p class="title-3">IV. History of Warfare and its Impact on States and Within States</p>
<p class="list">AERO 441 &amp; AERO 442 National Security Affairs &amp; Preparation for Active Duty I &amp; II</p>
<p class="list">HIST 338/838 War &amp; Peace in Europe: 1914 to Present</p>
<p class="list">NAVS 321 Evolution of Warfare</p>
<p class="list">ETHN 217/SOCI 217 Nationality &amp; Race Relations</p>
<p class="title-3">V. Science and Technology: Arms and Arms Control</p>
<p class="list">NAVS 321 Evolution of Warfare</p>
<p class="list">POLS 398 Arms Racing &amp; Arms Control</p>
<p class="title-3">VI. Economics and Resource Economics and the Origins of Modern Aggression</p>
<p class="list">AECN 346 World Food Economics</p>
<p class="list">ECON 423/823 Economics of the Less Developed Countries</p>
<p class="list">POLS 459/859 International Political Economy</p>
<p class="title-3">VII. Human Cultural Responses to War and its Alternatives</p>
<p class="list">ENGL 210 Themes in Literature</p>
<p class="list">PHIL 220 Elements of Ethics</p>
<p class="basic-text">Substitutions in this program may be made if such substitution can be justified on vocational or intellectual grounds.</p>
<p class="basic-text">A senior seminar will complete the program of 24 hours. Courses that are part of a student’s major may be used to satisfy the requirements for a conflict resolution minor.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>