<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Construction Engineering 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="construction-engineering-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Construction Engineering</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Construction Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Construction Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 126</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.5 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Christine Warren</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="title-1">Durham School of Architectural Engineering and Construction</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">School Director: Eddy M. Rojas</span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Coordinator: </span>Terri Norton</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Foster, Goedert, Rojas, Sires</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Bernstein, Bonsell, Harmon, Jensen, Morcous, Norton, Schwer, Stentz</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Ahn, Esmaeili, Lau, Pedersen</p>
<p class="basic-text">Construction engineering (CONE) is a program of the Charles W. Durham School of Architectural Engineering and Construction. The construction engineering major integrates engineering, construction, and management courses. This program is designed for persons fulfilling the construction industry’s need for licensed professional engineers. It resembles the construction management program but provides a greater emphasis on engineering, scientific, and technical courses so that requirements for licensure are met. The courses in construction engineering focus on the application of engineering principles to solve real world construction problems.  They include instruction in civil engineering, structural principles, material testing and evaluation, project management, computer-assisted design, 3D animation, sustainability and graphic communication.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The educational objective of the construction engineering program is to produce graduates who:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<div class="basic-text">Possess lifelong knowledge acquisition skills enabling them to add value to society throughout their construction careers by</div>
</li>
<ul>
<li>
<div class="basic-text">applying engineering principles of analysis and design to the constructed environment</div>
</li>
<li>learning technical skills, innovative thought and dedication to search for ways to improve society through enhanced functionality, efficiency and decreased cost</li>
<li>developing communication skills to effectively share their ideas with others</li>
<li>adapting to the constantly changing, interdisciplinary world of design and construction by learning good team work and team building skills</li>
<li>
<div class="basic-text">using appropriate construction practices including:</div>
</li>
<ul>
<li>
<div class="basic-text">business organization</div>
</li>
<li>
<div class="basic-text">estimating</div>
</li>
<li>
<div class="basic-text">scheduling</div>
</li>
<li>
<div class="basic-text">project delivery</div>
</li>
<li>
<div class="basic-text">ethics</div>
</li>
</ul>
</ul>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">Under the stimulus of increasing demand for its services globally, the construction industry has expanded its technological capabilities pertaining to physical and informational systems. This demand gives the construction engineering graduate an unprecedented number of opportunities for employment and for pursuing an advanced degree.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Construction engineers participate in the preparation of engineering and architectural plans and specifications which they translate into finished projects, such as buildings, bridges, highways, power plants, or other constructed facilities. These projects involve thousands of details shared by a team of owners, architects, engineers, general constructors, specialty constructors, manufacturers, material suppliers, equipment distributors, regulatory bodies and agencies, labor resources, and numerous others. The constructor assumes responsibility for delivery of the completed project at a specified time and cost and also accepts associated legal, financial, and management obligations. Because of the broad scope of the construction engineer’s project responsibility, he/she must assure the project’s ability to be constructed as well as its ability to be operated and sustained.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Construction Engineering is accredited by the EAC-ABET, Inc.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="basic-text">Please visit our website for the latest information on the Construction Engineering requirements for the Bachelor of Science program.</p>
<p class="basic-text">http://engineering.unl.edu/durhamschool/academics/ConstructionEngineering.shtml</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">All course work must be of “C” grade level or higher to be credited toward graduation requirements or to be valid as a prerequisite for another course.</p>
<p class="title-1"><span style="color: #333333;">Students are required to enroll in a predetermined set of courses specifically designed for general construction education.  Each student selects, with the approval of his/her adviser, a set of approved electives.</span></p>
<p class="title-1"><span style="color: #333333;">The CONE program follows the UNL ACE general education requirements.  Because of the specific needs of the program, several of these courses are specified in the curriculum.  Please contact Christine Warren, student services coordinator, at cwarren2@unl.edu or 402-554-3918, if you are interested in more information about this program.</span></p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>