<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Culinary Science 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="culinary-science-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Culinary Science</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEPARTMENT:</span> Nutrition &amp; Health Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span> Culinary Science </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Cameya Ramirez-Rousseau </p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Culinary Science (Culinology®) option is the emerging discipline of the culinary arts, nutrition and the science of food. Culinology® is becoming a recognized and valued discipline that will significantly impact food research and development in the global market. Culinologists are skilled chefs who are creating a new generation of exciting, high-quality food products. The food industry needs, and rewards, people who understand and can apply the principles of this specialty.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Degree at a Glance</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Requirements 31</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 1. 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 2. 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 3. STAT 218 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 4. CHEM 109 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 5. 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 6. ECON 211 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 7. 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 8. ECON 212 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 9. NUTR 253 <span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Requirement)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 10. FDST 460 <span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Requirement)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Culinary Arts Concentration 22</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">(Select any culinary arts electives from an accredited Institution)</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Professional Requirements 32</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>HRTM 173 and NUTR 245 1 hr ea 2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 244, NUTR 250, NUTR 344, (NUTR 372 or BIOS 312) and NUTR 449 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 441 &amp;/or NUTR 445 &amp;/or FDST 448 (3 hrs ea – <span class="requirement-ital">select two</span>) 6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>FDST 205, FDST 403 and FDST 430 (3 hrs ea) 9</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Supporting Courses 17-20</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 101 or higher 3-5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 341 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 321 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 110 4 </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 251 (3 hrs) &amp; CHEM 253 (1 hr) 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Processing Electives 6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select any two courses from the following: </span>(ASCI 210, ASCI 213, ASCI 310, ASCI 410) or (FDST 363, FDST 405, FDST 412, FDST 420, FDST 429, FDST 455) or NUTR 343</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives 9-12</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total Hours 120</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Area of Concentration </p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Culinary Arts electives from an accredited Culinary Arts Institution</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Professional Requirements</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Nutrition and Health Sciences</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-ital">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for NUTR courses.</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>HRTM 173 Field Experience in Culinology®</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 244 Scientific Principles of Food Preparation</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 245 Scientific Principles of Food Preparation Lab</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 250 Human Nutrition &amp; Metabolism</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 253 Cultural Aspects of Food &amp; Nutrition</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 344 Food &amp; Nutrition for Healthy Living</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 372 Food Safety &amp; Sanitation or BIOS 312 Microbiology</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 441 Functional Properties of Food <span class="faculty-list-bold">&amp;/or</span> FDST 448 Food Chemistry <span class="faculty-list-bold">&amp;/or</span> NUTR 445 Experimental Foods</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 449 Culinology® Research Experience</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Food Science and Technology</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>FDST 205 Food Composition &amp; Analysis</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>FDST 403 Food Quality Assurance</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>FDST 430 Sensory Evaluation</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>FDST 460 Food Product Development Concepts</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Supporting Sciences</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 321 Elements of Biochemistry</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 109 General Chemistry I</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 110 General Chemistry II</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Supporting Courses</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 211 &amp; ECON 212 Principles of Macroeconomics &amp; Microeconomics</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 101 College Algebra</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="list-ital">If a student does not place into MATH 101, they must complete the appropriate course(s) plus complete MATH 101. If a student places above MATH 101, the student will take either MATH 101 or the MATH course they placed into.</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MRKT 341 Marketing</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>STAT 218 Introduction to Statistics</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Processing Electives</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select two courses from: </span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ASCI 210 Animal Products</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ASCI 213 Meat Specifications &amp; Procurement</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ASCI 310 Fresh Meats</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ASCI 410 Processed Meats</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>FDST 363 Heat &amp; Mass Transfer</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>FDST 405 Food Microbiology</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>FDST 412 Cereal Technology</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>FDST 420 Fruit &amp; Vegetable Technology</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>FDST 429 Dairy Products Technology</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>FDST 455 Microbiology of Fermented Foods</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 343 Meat Culinology® III: Foodservice Applications <span class="requirement-ital">(Grade of C or better required in NUTR 343)</span></p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>OTHER </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Meat Culinology® Certificate Program</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Meat Culinology® Certificate program at UNL concentrates on meat because it is the center of most meals and is the major portion of the food budget in the food service industry. Proper handling and preparation is paramount to the success of a meal and a food establishment. The faculty at UNL who developed this program know that food industry professionals are busy. With little time to take courses on campus, the online Meat Culinology® Certificate program allows professionals the opportunity to advance their education and career by learning more about the science and art of meat. The six-course sequence will teach you everything from harvest to consumption of livestock and poultry. The Meat Culinology® Certificate program consists of six courses. Students must successfully complete all six courses in order to earn certification. Successful completion is considered an earned grade of ‘C’ or higher.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Meat Culinology® Certificate Program</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ASCI 210 Animal Products</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ASCI 213/NUTR 213 Meat Specification &amp; Procurement</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ASCI 310 Fresh Meats</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 343/ASCI 343 Meat Culinology® III: Foodservice Applications</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ASCI 410 Processed Meats</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ASCI 411 HACCP &amp; Food Safety Systems for the Food Industry</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
