<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Early Childhood Education in Mobile Society 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="early-childhood-education-in-mobile-society-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Early Childhood Education in Mobile Society</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Early Childhood Education in Mobile Society</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Valerie Wiemeyer</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Early Childhood Education in a Mobile Society (ECEMS) will prepare you to work in early childhood settings with young children whose family members are highly mobile. When you complete the program, you will be qualified to work in a variety of programs that offer early care and education for children birth to age 8 and particularly those with highly mobile populations such as military installations.</p>
<p><span class="basic-text">This is an online program offered as part of the Great Plains Interactive Distance Education Alliance</span> (IDEA)<span class="basic-text">. The Great Plains IDEA is a consortium of universities collaborating in the delivery of programs. As a student in this program</span>,<span class="basic-text"> you will enroll for all your course</span> <span class="basic-text">work through UNL and you will graduate from UNL, but your online courses will be taught by faculty at each of the participating universities. Core courses (51 credits; identified under the heading ECEMS Requirements below) in this program are subject to differential tuition at the common Great Plains IDEA rate. For 2014-2015, this rate is $370 per credit hour. The Great Plains IDEA rate does not apply to tuition and fees for any remaining credit hours needed to complete the bachelor</span><span class="basic-text">s degree (i.e., ACE </span>r<span class="basic-text">equirements, minor and elective requirements).</span> </p>
<p><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p>Endorsement Requirements</p>
<p>Degree at a Glance</p>
<p>ACE Requirements 30</p>

<p>ACE 1. Any ACE 1 Course (Suggested online courses: JGEN 200, JGEN 220, ENGL 151, ENGL 150)</p>
<p>ACE 2. Any ACE 2 Course (Suggested online course: ALEC 102)</p>
<p>ACE 3. Any ACE 3 Course (Suggested online courses: MATH 104, CSCE 101, ECON 215)</p>
<p>ACE 4. Any ACE 4 Course (Suggested online courses: AGRI 115, AGRI 485, AGRO 131)</p>
<p>ACE 5. Any ACE 5 Course (Suggested online courses: ENTO 115, GEOL 125, GPSP 377, ENGL 206, ENGL 215, SPAN 331)</p>
<p>ACE 6. Any ACE 6 Course (Suggested online courses: ANTH 110, ANTH 212, CRIM 101, ECON 211, SOCI 209, SOCI 225, CYAF 160)</p>
<p>ACE 7. Any ACE 7 Course</p>
<p>ACE 8. Any ACE 8 Course (Suggested online courses: ECON 211, WMNS 101, CYAF 150)</p>
<p>ACE 9. Any ACE 9 Course (Suggested online courses: CYAF 495, GPSP 377, GPSP 378, POLS 160, SOCI 200, SOCI 217, ECON 321, ENGL 215, ENGL 245N, SPAN 331, TEAC 330, WMNS 101, WMNS 385)</p>
<p>ACE 10. CYAF 306 ECEMS: Practicum III</p>
<p><strong></strong></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">ECEMS Requirements: 51 credits</p>
<p class="requirement-bold">*Students must be admitted into the ECEMS program to take these courses.  Admission requirements:  30 credit hours completed, 2.5 cumulative GPA.</p>

<p>CYAF 203 ECEMS: Child Development, Birth to 3 (3 cr)</p>
<p>CYAF 204 ECEMS: Child Development, 4 to 8 (3 cr)</p>
<p>CYAF 205 ECEMS:  Guidance and Classroom Environments (3 cr)</p>
<p>CYAF 206 ECEMS: Professional Development (3 cr)</p>
<p>CYAF 207 ECEMS: Practicum 1 (3 cr) Prereqs:  CYAF 203, 204, 205, 206</p>
<p>CYAF 208  ECEMS: Administration and Supervision in Early Childhood Settings (3 cr)</p>
<p>CYAF 209  ECEMS: Diversity in the Lives of Young Children and Families (3 cr)</p>
<p>CYAF 212  ECEMS: Health, Safety, and Nutrition (3 cr)</p>
<p>CYAF 213  ECEMS:  Technology and Young Children (3 cr)</p>
<p>CYAF 214  ECEMS: Working with Families (3 cr)</p>
<p>CYAF 301 ECEMS:  Assessing Young Children and Their Environments to Enhance Development (3 cr) Prereq: Practicum I</p>
<p>CYAF 302 ECEMS: Development of Curriculum for Children ages Birth to 3 (3 cr) Prereq: Practicum I</p>
<p>CYAF 303 ECEMS: Development of Curriculum for Children ages 4 to 8 (3 cr) Prereq:  Practicum I</p>
<p>CYAF 304 ECEMS: Young Children with Special Needs (3 cr) Prereq:  Practicum I</p>
<p>CYAF 305 ECEMS: Practicum II (3 cr) Prereq: Practicum I</p>
<p>CYAF 306 Practicum III (6 cr), P/NP Prereq:  Practicum II</p>
<p><strong></strong></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Electives/Minor:  39 credits</p>
<p><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span></p>
<p class="title-2">Criminal History Background Check</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS), along with the public and private schools and community agencies who provide services or programs for children, are all keenly attuned to the safety of children.  We have the responsibility to ensure that our students who interact with individuals served by schools or other agencies meet a high level of personal, professional and ethical behavior.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in non-teacher education programs who interact with pre-school or with school age youth in pre-schools, schools or in public agency settings, must complete an official criminal history background check by the approved CEHS vender prior to participating in a field experience.  The student is responsible for the cost of the criminal history review.  If more than three years elapse after the initial background check is conducted, the College reserves the right to require that one or more additional background checks be completed.  Eighteen months after the initial Criminal History Background Check, undergraduate students are required to complete the CEHS self-disclosure report.  Graduate students will be required to complete the self-disclosure report at the same time the initial background check is conducted.</p>
<p class="basic-text">If a student has any felony or any misdemeanor charges or convictions as reported on the background check, the student will be contacted by the College and may be required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Field Experience.  This meeting will be held so that the student can receive guidance with respect to the impact of the charge or conviction on the student's future in the College, and one's ability to find success in their profession.  <strong>If</strong> <strong>any new charges or convictions are acquired after a background check, the student is required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Field Experience within two weeks after the event occurs.  Failure to disclose any new information concerning one's criminal history can lead to removal from the program.</strong>  From the College's perspective, continued participation in school-based field experiences will be based on the type and number of convictions, the recentness of their occurrence, and whether or not they are in violation of the requirements of the Department of Health and Human Services and the Nebraska Department of Education as to how their standards are applied to working with pre-school and school age youth.  If the convictions are deemed to be serious in nature, the student will be prohibited from participation in a field experience in a pre-school, school or public agency setting.  The individual may then be referred to the department chair for further disciplinary action.</p>
<p class="title-2">Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to criminal convictions, other non-criminal behaviors which: involve risks that are unacceptable for the children charged to their care; demonstrate a lack of professionalism and good judgement; and evidence a disregard for one's personal reputation or the integrity of the College, may bring into question a student's ability to be successful in their profession.  Before engaging in such questionable behavior, students must consider how the College, the profession, an employer, or the community would perceive or evaluate the impact of that behavior.  Students must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and others.  Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences is most interested in training students who show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act responsibly.  These individuals must be able to serve as representatives of our College and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should the College, through the reasonable exercise of the judgement of its Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience, determine that a student's individual behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons, the College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to deny entry to or dismiss such a student from any program.  More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum or field experience, since the interests and safety of the children, and young people present in the classroom, schools and other venues where these practicum experiences take place are paramount.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Problematic behaviors, which the College of Education and Human Sciences reasonably determines renders the candidate a risk to the educational community or demonstrates a likelihood of illegal activity, may be established by any credible means, including the facts surrounding a record of arrests and/or convictions.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Similarly, behaviors which result in a finding by a court or other governmental body that the individual is:</p>
<ul>
<li>a mentally ill and dangerous person;</li>
<li>mentally incompetent to stand trial;</li>
<li>acquitted of criminal charges because of insanity;</li>
<li>an incapacitated person;</li>
<li>a person in need of a guardian or conservator, or;</li>
<li>a person unable to manage his or her property due to mental illness, mental deficiency, or chronic use of drugs or chronic intoxication are the kind of behaviors which are likely to disqualify a candidate from participation in practicum experiences and other College of Education and Human Sciences programs.</li>
</ul>
<p>Similar to the discussion concerning criminal convictions above, the consequences for unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will very likely be different in each case, due to the unique circumstances involved in each matter.  The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students' fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that safety in the field experience, the reputation of the College, and the best interest of the student, are all recognized and promoted.</p>
<p class="title-2">Appeal to the Dean</p>
<p>Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience with respect to a criminal behavior matter, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing within no greater than ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination.  The student's written appeal shall clearly explain to the Dean the basis for the student's appeal.  The Dean will review the student's basis for appeal, and is authorized, but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student's written appeal.  The Dean is authorized to collect such additional information as she or he deems necessary to review an investigation (including but not limited to the student's education records maintained by the College, other documentation, personal interviews and meetings with the student, College faculty, administration and staff, and others with relevant information).  The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possible, but in no case longer than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal.  Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience or both, a written decision, which decision shall be final an not subject to further appeal or review within the University of Nebraska.</p>
<div style="width: 1px; height: 1px; overflow: hidden; position: fixed; top: 10px; left: 10px;">
<p class="title-2">Criminal History Background Check</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS), along with the public and private schools and community agencies who provide services or programs for children, are all keenly attuned to the safety of children.  We have the responsibility to ensure that our students who interact with individuals served by schools or other agencies meet a high level of personal, professional and ethical behavior.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in non-teacher education programs who interact with pre-school or with school age youth in pre-schools, schools or in public agency settings, must complete an official criminal history background check by the approved CEHS vender prior to participating in a field experience.  The student is responsible for the cost of the criminal history review.  If more than three years elapse after the initial background check is conducted, the College reserves the right to require that one or more additional background checks be completed.  Eighteen months after the initial Criminal History Background Check, undergraduate students are required to complete the CEHS self-disclosure report.  Graduate students will be required to complete the self-disclosure report at the same time the initial background check is conducted.</p>
<p class="basic-text">If a student has any felony or any misdemeanor charges or convictions as reported on the background check, the student will be contacted by the College and may be required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Field Experience.  This meeting will be held so that the student can receive guidance with respect to the impact of the charge or conviction on the student's future in the College, and one's ability to find success in their profession.  <strong>If</strong> <strong>any new charges or convictions are acquired after a background check, the student is required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Field Experience within two weeks after the event occurs.  Failure to disclose any new information concerning one's criminal history can lead to removal from the program.</strong>  From the College's perspective, continued participation in school-based field experiences will be based on the type and number of convictions, the recentness of their occurrence, and whether or not they are in violation of the requirements of the Department of Health and Human Services and the Nebraska Department of Education as to how their standards are applied to working with pre-school and school age youth.  If the convictions are deemed to be serious in nature, the student will be prohibited from participation in a field experience in a pre-school, school or public agency setting.  The individual may then be referred to the department chair for further disciplinary action.</p>
<p class="title-2">Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to criminal convictions, other non-criminal behaviors which: involve risks that are unacceptable for the children charged to their care; demonstrate a lack of professionalism and good judgement; and evidence a disregard for one's personal reputation or the integrity of the College, may bring into question a student's ability to be successful in their profession.  Before engaging in such questionable behavior, students must consider how the College, the profession, an employer, or the community would perceive or evaluate the impact of that behavior.  Students must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and others.  Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences is most interested in training students who show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act responsibly.  These individuals must be able to serve as representatives of our College and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should the College, through the reasonable exercise of the judgement of its Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience, determine that a student's individual behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons, the College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to deny entry to or dismiss such a student from any program.  More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum or field experience, since the interests and safety of the children, and young people present in the classroom, schools and other venues where these practicum experiences take place are paramount.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Problematic behaviors, which the College of Education and Human Sciences reasonably determines renders the candidate a risk to the educational community or demonstrates a likelihood of illegal activity, may be established by any credible means, including the facts surrounding a record of arrests and/or convictions.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Similarly, behaviors which result in a finding by a court or other governmental body that the individual is:</p>
<ul>
<li>a mentally ill and dangerous person;</li>
<li>mentally incompetent to stand trial;</li>
<li>acquitted of criminal charges because of insanity;</li>
<li>an incapacitated person;</li>
<li>a person in need of a guardian or conservator, or;</li>
<li>a person unable to manage his or her property due to mental illness, mental deficiency, or chronic use of drugs or chronic intoxication are the kind of behaviors which are likely to disqualify a candidate from participation in practicum experiences and other College of Education and Human Sciences programs.</li>
</ul>
<p>Similar to the discussion concerning criminal convictions above, the consequences for unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will very likely be different in each case, due to the unique circumstances involved in each matter.  The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students' fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that safety in the field experience, the reputation of the College, and the best interest of the student, are all recognized and promoted.</p>
<p class="title-2">Appeal to the Dean</p>
<p>Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience with respect to a criminal behavior matter, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing within no greater than ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination.  The student's written appeal shall clearly explain to the Dean the basis for the student's appeal.  The Dean will review the student's basis for appeal, and is authorized, but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student's written appeal.  The Dean is authorized to collect such additional information as she or he deems necessary to review an investigation (including but not limited to the student's education records maintained by the College, other documentation, personal interviews and meetings with the student, College faculty, administration and staff, and others with relevant information).  The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possible, but in no case longer than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal.  Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience or both, a written decision, which decision shall be final an not subject to further appeal or review within the University of Nebraska.</p>
</div>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>