<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Economics (ASC) 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="economics-asc-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Economics (ASC)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Economics (ASC)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> F. Gregory Hayden</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Scott M. Fuess, Jr.,</span> 340 College of Business Administration Building</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Allgood, Anderson, Cushing, Edwards, Fuess, Hayden, May, Rosenbaum, Schmidt, van den Berg, Walstad</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Giertz, McGarvey, Thompson</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Kim</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> Miller</p>
<p class="basic-text">Economic analysis is useful in many decisions made by individuals, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and governments. In addition to opportunities in teaching, economists are employed in many branches of government and on the staffs of corporations in manufacturing, insurance, banking, brokerage and other financial services. Economists often serve as consultants, either individually or in consulting firms. Todays economists deal with problems ranging from monetary and fiscal policy, monopoly and competition, environmental improvement, labor relations, regional development, urban reconstruction, economic development and international business and finance. Economics is also a popular major for students planning to enter professional and graduate programs, particularly in law, foreign service, labor relations, or business administration.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The department of economics offers the opportunity for intensive study in twelve specialized economic areas:</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">General Economics and Theory.</span> Develops fundamental reasoning skills and analytical tools necessary to understand and evaluate economic issues such as specialization, trade, efficiency, costs, markets, prices, resource allocation, money, labor, and government and think critically about economic theory and social provisioning.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Comparative International and Regional Development. Examines how human capital, fiscal policy, natural features, and industry clusters influence the comparative advantage, growth, and standard of living in urban and regional economies between and within countries.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Econometrics.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Economic Education.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Economic History.</span> Examines the transformation in economic life that accompanied the rise of market capitalism in the United States and focus on the impact of this transformation on the environment, society, and individuals. Courses in this area are integrative in nature and allow students the opportunity to examine the complex nature of economic development throughout American history.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Industrial Organization and Regulation.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Institutional Economics.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">International Trade and Finance.</span> Examines the causes and effects of imports, exports, foreign investment, and migration and their implications for exchange rates, the balance of payments, and economic welfare.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Labor Economics.</span> Focuses on how labor markets function and thus, how wages and employment are determined. The decisions of labor market participants are studied, as are employment practices and public policies related to employment issues.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Monetary Economics.</span> Studies the role of money and banking system, and of Federal Reserves monetary policy in the determination of output, employment, interest rates, prices and business cycles in the domestic and open-economy context.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Public Finance.</span> Survey of taxation and public expenditures in theory and practice. Understanding the logic of collective action, the theory of public goods, social welfare, redistribution and intergovernmental fiscal relations.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Quantitative Economics.</span></p>
<p class="basic-text">For some careers, study in related areas is advisable. If you're interested in:</p>
<ul>
<li>Human Resource Management take additional courses in labor economics and economic history</li>
<li>Finance courses in money and banking, intermediate microeconomics, and macroeconomics are helpful</li>
<li>Marketing econometrics courses add to your resume</li>
<li>Accounting econometrics and public finance courses covering taxes are useful</li>
</ul>
<p class="header-paragraph">In planning a program of studies, students should consult a faculty adviser or talk to any member of the economics faculty who would be glad to make suggestions about complementary courses.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Many economics courses also satisfy ACE requirements, (see Other.)</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text-no-indent">An economics major must complete 30 credit hours of economics. These 30 hours must include:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 215 Statistics* 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 311 Intermediate Macroeconomics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 312 Intermediate Microeconomics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Economics 300- or 400-level courses 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Economics 400-level courses 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 30</p>
<p class="asterisk">*<span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE</span> for economics majors: STAT 218 may be substituted for ECON 215 if STAT 218 was completed before declaring economics as a major; otherwise student must take ECON 215.</p>
<p class="title-1">Track/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">While not required, students majoring in economics may choose to pursue areas of interest in the following disciplines to fulfill requirements for the major. Course options appear under each area.</p>
<p class="title-3">General Economics and Theory</p>
<p class="list">ECON 389 Current Economic Issues</p>
<p class="list">ECON 413/FINA 413 Social Insurance</p>
<p class="list">ECON 433 History of Economic Thought</p>
<p class="list">ECON 445 Gender, Economics, &amp; Social Provisioning</p>
<p class="title-3">Comparative International and Regional Development</p>
<p class="list">ECON 322 Introduction to Development Economics</p>
<p class="list">ECON 323 The Economic Development of Latin America</p>
<p class="list">ECON 340 Introduction to Urban-Regional Economics</p>
<p class="list">ECON 388 Comparative Economic Systems</p>
<p class="list">ECON 423 Economics of the Less Developed Countries</p>
<p class="list">ECON 440 Regional Development</p>
<p class="list">ECON 442 Regional Analysis</p>
<p class="list">ECON 466 Pro-seminar in International Relations I</p>
<p class="list">ECON 467 Pro-seminar in International Relations II</p>
<p class="list">ECON 487 Economies in Transition</p>
<p class="title-3">Econometrics</p>
<p class="list">ECON 417 Introductory Econometrics</p>
<p class="title-3">Economic Education</p>
<p class="list">(Also see courses in Quantitative Economics)</p>
<p class="list">ECON 450 Economics for Teachers</p>
<p class="list">ECON 451 Economics Issues for Teachers</p>
<p class="title-3">Economic History</p>
<p class="list">ECON 375 Women &amp; Work in United States History</p>
<p class="list">ECON 457 19th Century United States Economic History</p>
<p class="list">ECON 458 20th Century United States Economic History</p>
<p class="title-3">Industrial Organization and Regulation</p>
<p class="list">ECON 426 Government Intervention in Markets</p>
<p class="list">ECON 435 Market Competition</p>
<p class="list">Also see the following economics courses:</p>
<p class="list">ECON 457/857 19th Century U.S. Economic History</p>
<p class="list">ECON 458/858 20th Century U.S. Economic History</p>
<p class="list">ECON 472/872 Efficiency in Government</p>
<p class="list">ECON 487/887 Economies in Transition</p>
<p class="list">ECON 900 Seminar in Economic Theory &amp; Policy</p>
<p class="title-3">Institutional Economics</p>
<p class="list">ECON 475 Theory &amp; Analysis of Institutional Economics</p>
<p class="title-3">International Trade and Finance</p>
<p class="list">ECON 321 Introduction to International Economics</p>
<p class="list"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span> ECON 321 is also an ACE 9 course option and can be taken to fulfill the NBR 6 ACE 9 requirement as well as a course for the major (AND it is also an IBCR).</p>
<p class="list">ECON 421 International Trade</p>
<p class="list">ECON 422 International Finance</p>
<p class="list">For additional courses, see Comparative International &amp; Regional Development</p>
<p class="title-3">Labor Economics</p>
<p class="list">ECON 381 Introduction to Labor Economics</p>
<p class="list">ECON 481 Economics of the Labor Market</p>
<p class="list">Ace 10 approved. </p>
<p class="list">ECON 482 Labor in the National Economy</p>
<p class="list">Ace 10 approved.</p>
<p class="list">ECON 485 The Regulatory Environment for Employment &amp; Labor</p>
<p class="title-3">Monetary Economics</p>
<p class="list">ECON 303 An Introduction to Money &amp; Banking</p>
<p class="list">ECON 365 Financial Institutions &amp; Markets</p>
<p class="list">ECON 403 Money &amp; the Financial System</p>
<p class="list">ECON 404 Current Issues in Monetary Economics</p>
<p class="title-3">Public Finance</p>
<p class="list">ECON 371 Elements of Public Finance</p>
<p class="list">ECON 471 Public Finance</p>
<p class="list">ECON 472 Efficiency in Government</p>
<p class="title-3">Quantitative Economics</p>
<p class="list">ECON 409 Applied Public Policy Analysis</p>
<p class="list">ECON 416 Statistics for Decision Making</p>
<p class="list">ECON 419 Topics in Applied Research</p>
<p class="list">Also see Econometrics area for additional courses in quantitative economics.</p>
<p class="title-3">Research and Thesis</p>
<p class="list">Seminar and research courses in specific fields are listed in their respective divisions.</p>
<p class="list">ECON 189H University Honors Seminar</p>
<p class="list">ECON 198 Freshman Seminar</p>
<p class="list">ECON 399 Independent Study</p>
<p class="list">ECON 399H Honors: Independent Study</p>
<p class="list">ECON 499H Honors Thesis</p>
<p class="basic-text">This department participates in the program for Global Studies. For a full description of the program, see Global Studies.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> The advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy are offered. For details of these programs see the Graduate Studies Bulletin. Refer to the Graduate Studies Bulletin for 800/900-level courses.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are required to complete ECON 211, ECON 212, and ECON 215 before completing additional required economics course work. The completion of BSAD 150 and MATH 104 are required prior to enrollment in ECON 215. We strongly recommend students complete the intermediate theory sequence, ECON 311 and ECON 312, prior to completing elective 300 and 400 level classes.</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">All courses for the major, with the exception of ECON 399, must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass). If ECON 399 is taken as Pass/No Pass, it may only be used as an elective.</p>
<p class="title-2">Course Level Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">Completion of ECON 311 and ECON 312 is recommended before taking other 300/400-level economics courses.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A:</span> 18 hours of economics course work</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan B:</span> 12 hours of economics course work</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>
<p class="basic-text">All students are required to meet the prerequisites listed for each course, including any specific grade or GPA requirement, to include all requirements for enrollment in 300- or 400-level economics courses.</p>
<p class="basic-text">ECON 211 and ECON 212 Macro- and Microeconomics are ACE 6 and ACE 8 approved course work.</p>
<p class="basic-text">ECON 215 Statistics is an approved ACE 3 course and may be used to fulfill the ACE 3 requirement of the University.</p>
<p class="basic-text">ECON 321 Introduction to International Economics is an approved ACE 9 course and while most students will complete ACE 9 during the freshman and sophomore year with other course work, transfer and upper-class students meeting the prerequisite, may wish to take this class.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>