<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Electrical Engineering 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="electrical-engineering-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Electrical Engineering</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Electrical Engineering</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 125</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Jerry Varner</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Jerry L. Hudgins</span>, 209N SEC</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Chair:</span> Sohrab Asgarpoor</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Alexander, Asgarpoor, Bahar, Balkir, Boye, Choobineh, Hoffman, Hudgins, Ianno, Lu, Otu, Pérez, Sayood, Schubert, Woollam</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Franke-Shubert, Qiao, Snyder, Vakilzadian, Varner</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Han, Qu</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Research Professor:</span> Patterson</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Research Assistant Professors:</span> Hofmann, Psota, Zhou</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Senior Lecturer:</span> Bauer</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturer:</span> McCreight</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Phone:</span> 402-472-3771</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Fax: </span>402-472-4732</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website:</span> http://engineering.unl.edu/academicunits/electricalengineering/</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Electrical engineering is concerned with the production, transmission, and utilization of electrical energy and the transmission and processing of information. Employment opportunities for electrical engineers cover a wide spectrum of activities including design, development, research, sales, and management. These activities are carried on in industrial organizations, public and private utilities, the communications and computer industry, governmental and educational institutions, and consulting engineering firms. The objective of this major is to offer students an education to become productive electrical engineers and be active, contributing citizens of the nation and the world.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This department has over 25 faculty involved in research related to electronic materials, nanotechnology, optical systems, communications, biomedical applications, signal processing, microelectronics design, energy systems, and electromagnetics. Students are encouraged to participate in research activities, and have opportunities to travel and present their research results.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The department has extensive research facilities for all areas including state of the art computing facilities, integrated circuits and systems research facilities, communications and signal-processing laboratories, applied electromagnetics research, solid state laboratories, nanostructures research, electro-optics research and energy systems laboratories.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The curriculum is designed to provide a broad education in fundamental principles and laboratory applications, and an awareness of the socioeconomic impact of technology. Technical electives are normally selected from advanced courses in electrical engineering to provide for specialization in selected areas. However, technical electives can also be selected from courses offered by other departments of the College of Engineering or from appropriate physics, chemistry, mathematics, and biological sciences courses. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The department administers a network of high-end UNIX workstations and PCs, upgraded regularly, and used for classroom instruction as well as the individual needs of students.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSION</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Major/Department Admission</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Requirements for admission to the Department of Electrical Engineering will be granted if he/she has: </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. maintained a cumulative GPA of at least 2.4 and is in good standing in the College of Engineering, and, </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. completed ELEC 215 and ELEC 216 with a grade of C or better. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>A transfer student will be admitted if he/she has: </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. completed courses equivalent to ELEC 215 and 216 at other institutions with acceptable transfer grades of C or better, and, </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. a GPA of 2.4 or better during their first 12 credit hours in Electrical Engineering course work at UNL. </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Transfer students will be able to appeal to the advisers for admission if they fail to meet the GPA requirement for an additional semester.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Requirements for the Degree</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>First Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 121 Introduction to Electrical Engineering I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGR 10 Freshman Engineering Seminar 0</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Science Elective 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'> Choose 4 credit hours of science elective from the following: LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L; CHEM 109 or CHEM 111 or CHEM 113; and PHYS 213. </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Second Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 122 Introduction to Electrical Engineering II 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Computer Programming Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>The recommended computer programming elective is CSCE 155E. </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 14</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Third Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 215 Electronics &amp; Circuits I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 235 Introductory Electrical Lab I 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 222 General Physics Lab II 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Communications Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'> Choose from JGEN 200, or one of two from JGEN 300 and COMM 286 so as to meet both ACE 1 and 2. </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 16</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Fourth Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 216 Electronics &amp; Circuits II 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 222 Introduction to Embedded Systems 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 236 Introductory Electrical Lab II 1</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Science Elective 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'> Choose 4 credit hours of science elective from the following: LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L; CHEM 109 or CHEM 111 or CHEM 113; and PHYS 213. </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 17</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Fifth Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 304 Signals &amp; Systems I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 307 Electrical Engineering Lab I 2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 316 Electronics &amp; Circuits III 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 370 Digital Logic Design 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Technical Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'> The department maintains an approved list of technical electives (within and outside of EE) on the department website.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 17</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Sixth Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 305 Probability Theory &amp; Introduction to Random Processes 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 306 Electromagnetic Field Theory 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 317 Electrical Engineering Lab II 2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Technical Electives 6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'> The department maintains an approved list of technical electives (within and outside of EE) on the department website.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Communications Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'> Choose from JGEN 200 or one of two from JGEN 300 and COMM 286 so as to meet both ACE 1 and 2. </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 17</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Seventh Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 494 Electrical Engineering Senior Design I 2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Technical Electives 9</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'> The department maintains an approved list of technical electives (within and outside of EE) on the department website.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 14</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'>Eighth Semester Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 495 Electrical Engineering Senior Design II 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Technical Electives 9</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'> The department maintains an approved list of technical electives (within and outside of EE) on the department website.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total Credit Hours Required for Graduation 125</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Each EE undergraduate student must choose one of the options listed below for the EE technical electives.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Electrical Engineering Options</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. Communications and Signal Processing</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Electromagnetic Fields and Optics </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. Electronics and Computer Engineering </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. Energy and Power Systems </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>5. Materials and Devices </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>6. Bioengineering</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">There are twenty-seven (27) credit hours of technical electives required. Of these 27 credit hours, at least 12 credit hours must be taken in electrical engineering (ELEC) courses which are referred to as “EE technical electives.” Below is a list of courses in each option.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. Communications &amp; Signal Processing</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 410, <span class="basic-text-bold">ELEC 462</span>, <span class="basic-text-bold">ELEC 463</span>, ELEC 464, ELEC 465 </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Electromagnetic Fields and Optics</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">ELEC 408</span>, ELEC 467, ELEC 468, ELEC 480, ELEC 486 </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. Electronics and Computer Engineering</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">ELEC 361</span>, ELEC 469, ELEC 470, <span class="basic-text-bold">ELEC 475</span></p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. Energy and Power Systems</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 406, <span class="basic-text-bold">ELEC 428</span>, <span class="basic-text-bold">ELEC 438</span>, ELEC 444</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>5. Materials and Devices</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 417, ELEC 420, <span class="basic-text-bold">ELEC 421</span>, ELEC 422 </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>6. Bioengineering</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">ELEC 452</span>, ELEC 460, ELEC 498E, ELEC 498S </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Of these 12 credit hours, 6 credit hours must be taken from one of the six EE options listed (including at least one <span class="basic-text-bold">bold</span> course). </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>In addition, at least one 3 credit hour course from a different EE Option must be taken. The remaining 3 credits may be satisfied by any non-required 300 or 400 level electrical engineering courses except ELEC 399.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The remaining 15 credit hours of technical electives which are referred to as “EE or other technical electives” may be taken from any 300 or 400 level course offering (with the exception of those listed below) in the Department of Electrical Engineering or in any other <span class="basic-text-ital">engineering</span> department within the College of Engineering at UNL, or in the Departments of Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Computer Science and Engineering, Mathematics, Statistics, or Physics and Astronomy at UNL. </p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Not Allowed 300 and 400 Level Technical Electives</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 310 School of Biological Sciences Seminar</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>IMSE 305 Introduction to Engineering Management</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 495 Seminar </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 496 Seminar in Mathematics</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>In addition, a list of courses at the 100 and 200 level, which also will be accepted as technical elective credits, are listed below.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Allowed 100 and 200 Level Technical Electives</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>AGEN 225/BSEN 225 Engineering Properties of Biological Materials</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ASTR 204 Introduction to Astronomy &amp; Astrophysics</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ASTR 224 Astronomy &amp; Astrophysics Lab</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 206 General Genetics</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 213 Human Physiology</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CHME 202 Mass &amp; Energy Balances</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CHME 331 Equilibrium Stage Operations</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 110 General Chemistry II</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 114 Fundamental Chemistry II</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 2xx Any 200 level chemistry course</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 156 Computer Science II </p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 235 Introduction to Discrete Structures</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>CSCE 251 Unix Programming Environment</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MATL 260 Elements of Materials Science</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MATL 262 Materials Lab I</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MECH 223 Engineering Statics</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MECH 250 Mechanics I</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>MECH 200 Engineering Thermodynamics</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>No more than a total of 3 credit hours may be taken in ELEC 399 or similar offerings from other departments.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>However, students can choose a “Research Option.” The purpose of research option is to provide research experiences and offer opportunities for students to work with a faculty adviser on a specific research topic. A certificate of completion of thesis will be awarded to the students, and outstanding thesis awards will be presented at the end of semester functions. Requirements for the research option are listed below.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Research Option</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. Selection of a faculty adviser (EE department faculty), research topic, and thesis committee (at least one other faculty).</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Registration for 6 credit hours of undergraduate research (ELEC 399) over at least two consecutive semesters on the same research topic.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. GPA of above 3.0.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. Write an undergraduate thesis or report and make an oral presentation to be graded by thesis committee members.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>C- and D Grades</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 216 – Prereq: A grade of C or better in ELEC 215; Prereq or Parallel: MATH 221 and ELEC 236.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 304 – Prereq: A grade of C or better in ELEC 216; MATH 221</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 316 – Prereq: A grade of C or better in ELEC 216</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>ELEC 306 – Prereq: A grade of C or better in ELEC 216; PHYS 212; MATH 221</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>OTHER: </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>EE Resource Room/Tutoring</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Department of Electrical Engineering has a resource room staffed by upper class undergraduates and graduate students. Students can get help with their homework, get answers to technical questions, etc. The room is open approximately 20 hours per week. Open hours for each semester are posted outside the room.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A list of tutors is available from the Department of Electrical Engineering, 209N, SEC. At the beginning of each semester students are invited to offer their services through these lists. </p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
