<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Electronics Engineering (Omaha) 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="electronics-engineering-omaha-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Electronics Engineering (Omaha)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Electronics Engineering (Omaha)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Electronics Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 127</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.5 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Roger Sash</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Interim Chair: Roger Sash, PKI 201E</span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Chen, Sharif, Wysocki</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Ci, Jang, Nguyen, Peng, Qian, Sash, Yang</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Senior Lecturers:</span> Detloff, Gilmore</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Phone:</span> 402-554-2288</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">FAX:</span> 402-554-2289</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website:</span> http://ceen.unl.edu</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Email: </span>rsash1@unl.edu</p>
<p class="basic-text">The electronics engineering program is administered by the Department of Computer and Electronics Engineering (CEEN) and the bachelor of science degree program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org.</p>
<p class="title-1">Mission</p>
<p class="basic-text">The mission of the Department of Computer and Electronics Engineering (CEEN) at the University of Nebraska is to develop and maintain programs of excellence in teaching and research which meet the educational needs of its constituents, which will support the state of Nebraska in its development as a leading center for high-technology computer/electronics/telecommunications industry and which will support national needs for well-educated computer and electronics engineering professionals.</p>
<p class="title-1">Program Educational Objectives</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Department’s Program Educational Objectives are a statement of what its graduates are doing or are capable of doing three to five years after graduation. The students in the electronics engineering program receive a strong foundation in engineering science and design that will enable them to pursue productive careers in not only the electronics engineering field, but can also be used as the foundation for careers in other areas such as business, management, and medicine. Typical industries in which the electronics engineering graduate would be employed could include those in communication systems, telecommunication networks, analog systems, hardware/software integration, and digital and microprocessor systems.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Electronic Engineering program prepares our graduates for their professional career with the objectives that within five years after graduation they will be:</p>
<ul>
<li>Employed in industry, academia or government</li>
<li>Successful engineers who develop innovative solutions for design and construction of electrical/electronic systems and other applications of modern engineering</li>
<li>Functioning on teams, exhibiting leadership, and making effective contributions to the benefit of their workplace and community</li>
<li>Engaging in postgraduate education or pursuing professional development for continuously renewing and expanding their knowledge base</li>
<li>Performing engineering practice in context that reflects awareness of the ethics of their profession, and of the impacts of their work on the profession and society at large.</li>
</ul>
<p class="header-paragraph">These Program Educational Objectives were developed with input from the program’s educational objectives constituency consisting of employers (including CEEN Industry Advisory Board), graduates of the program, and faculty of the department.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Student Outcomes</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Student outcomes are those abilities that a graduate of the electronics engineering program will have attained so that he/she can meet the educational objectives established for the program.<br />At the time of graduation, students in the CEEN Electronics Engineering program will have:</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><br />a.    an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><br /> <br />b.    an ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><br /> <br />c.    an ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><br /> <br />d.    an ability to function on multidisciplinary teams</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><br /> <br />e.    an ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><br /> <br />f.    an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><br /> <br />g.    an ability to communicate effectively</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><br /> <br />h.    the broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><br /> <br />i.    a recognition of the need for, and an ability to engage in life-long learning</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><br /> <br />j.    a knowledge of contemporary issues</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><br /> <br />k.    an ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering practice</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><br /> <br />These program outcomes have been developed with input from the program outcomes constituency group consisting of:</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><br />•    Employers (including CEEN Industry Advisory Board)</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><br />•    Graduates of the program</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><br />•    Faculty of the department</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><br />•    Students in the program</p>

<p class="header-paragraph">The individual holding this degree will have advanced knowledge in his or her field of engineering interest and in addition will have a university educational background involving mathematics, the physical sciences, and the humanities and social sciences. The curriculum has a strong focus in telecommunications engineering. Completion of this program will enable the graduate to enter employment in positions involving telecommunications engineering design, analog circuit design, telecommunications network performance analysis, and technical management of telecommunications networks. The program also leads to the preparation for graduate work in electronics engineering or electrical engineering.</p>
<p class="title-2">Concentrations</p>
<p class="basic-text">The department offers several areas of concentration so students can attain an in-depth study of a topic in computer engineering or electronics engineering. The electronics engineering concentrations are:</p>
<p class="basic-text">Bioelectronics</p>
<p class="basic-text">Electrical Engineering</p>
<p class="basic-text">Network Security</p>
<p class="basic-text">Robotics and Control</p>
<p class="basic-text">Telecommunications</p>
<p class="basic-text">Wireless Systems</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Typical Schedule</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">First Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 103 Computer &amp; Electronics Engineering Fundamentals 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CSCE 155A Computer Science I <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> 155E Computer Science I: Systems Engineering Focus 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGL 151 Writing: Rhetoric as Argument 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Second Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 106 Microprocessor Applications 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 225 Computer &amp; Electronics Engineering Seminar 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">COMM 109 Fundamentals of Human Communication 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II* 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 221 General Physics Lab I 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="asterisk">*Calculus II is a 5-credit course on the Omaha campus. Students taking Calculus II on the Lincoln campus will need to obtain an additional 1 credit hour of math or science.</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Third Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 213 Electrical Circuits I 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 218 Electrical Circuits Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 314 Applied Linear Algebra (Matrix Theory) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fourth Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 214 Electrical Circuits II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 222 Electronic Circuits I 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">JGEN 300 Technical Writing 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective SLO 5 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 17</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fifth Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 328 Applied Fields &amp; Lines I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 352 Electronic Circuits II 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 355 Signals &amp; Linear Systems 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 380 Statistics &amp; Applications 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective SLO 6 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Sixth Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 313 Switching Circuit Theory 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 325 Communications Systems 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 361 Data &amp; Telecommunications Transceivers 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Conc/ENGR Elective 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Seventh Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 496 Senior Thesis Proposal 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 469 Tech, Science &amp; Civ (UNO) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Conc/ENGR Elective 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective SLO 7 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Eighth Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 499 Senior Thesis 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Conc/ENGR Elective 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective SLO 8 &amp; 9 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="asterisk">Students must complete one of the electronics engineering concentrations.</p>
<p class="asterisk">Three hours of the engineering electives can be chosen from a list of approved non-CEEN courses.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Credit Hours Required 127</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<ul>
<li>All course work must be of “C” grade level or higher to be credited toward graduation requirements or to be valid as a prerequisite for another course.</li>
</ul>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>
<p class="title-1">General Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Advisement</p>
<p class="basic-text">Upon entry into the curriculum, each student will be assigned a faculty academic adviser. It is required that the student meet with the adviser prior to each class registration period and that all courses to be applied toward the degree be selected with the advice and approval of the adviser. Students are expected to have their academic records reviewed and obtain approval from the department prior to application to the University registrar for award of the degree in order to insure that all curricular requirements will be satisfied by the time of intended graduation.</p>
<p class="title-2">Curriculum</p>
<p class="basic-text">Because of the rapid developments in the fields of computer engineering and electronics engineering, the curricular requirements are continually reviewed and upgraded to reflect technological advances. Curricular sequence and course descriptions contained herein are intended to serve as general guidelines. Contact the department for information on any changes to the requirements that are currently in effect but not listed in this catalog. Currently enrolled students are expected to modify their programs to take advantage of such revisions. Students who do not maintain continuous progress toward the degree through enrollment in applicable course work will be considered as new students upon reentering the computer or electronics engineering curricular sequence and will be subject to the requirements of the curriculum current at the time of their reentry. Certain courses may not be valid as prerequisites or as credit toward the degree after two academic years; the student’s academic adviser should be consulted regarding applicability.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The department maintains a high standard of excellence in meeting its objective of providing the student with extensive experience in the fields of computer engineering and electronics engineering. The development of both hardware and software and the knowledge of the interrelationship of these areas is enhanced through the extensive use of laboratory equipment. The applicable University bulletins and College academic policies must be followed to ensure that the student satisfies the campus general education requirements.</p>
<p class="title-2">Senior Thesis</p>
<p class="basic-text">The capstone senior thesis requirement provides a unique and challenging opportunity for the undergraduate student to demonstrate his/her ability to apply the knowledge gained in the course work sequence to the planning, design, execution, testing and reporting of a significant project in the applications of engineering principles. The initiative and responsibility expected of the student executing the senior thesis parallel the expectations of the employer of the program graduate.</p>
<p class="title-2">Electives</p>
<p class="basic-text">Computer engineering and electronic engineering courses which are described in the catalog but are not shown as requirements in the semester sequences are offered as the need arises to provide co-interest areas wherein the students may broaden their background in the applications of computer engineering or electronics engineering. In addition, appropriate specified technical electives will be selected to augment the student’s particular area of interest. The applicability of transfer course work with engineering content toward credit in the curriculum is determined on a case-by-case basis by the department.</p>
<p class="title-2">Special Interest Areas</p>
<p class="basic-text">Opportunities are provided for the development of areas of special interest through enrollment in the Individual Study in Computer and Electronics Engineering courses which are offered at the freshman through senior level for the student who may wish to develop a topic under the guidance of a department faculty member. Enrollment is by permission after the department chair has approved a written proposal. Special Topics in Computer and Electronics Engineering classes also are offered by the department as the need arises to cover topics needing emphasis as a result of the rapidly developing fields of computer engineering and electronics engineering. Academic advisers should be consulted regarding the particular topics to be covered and the necessary prerequisites for each offering of this course.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who expect to continue their education at the graduate level after the award of the baccalaureate degree should consult their adviser regarding course selections that would enhance that objective.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are encouraged to develop their professional and leadership potential through participation in student chapters of related professional organizations and in University extracurricular activities. Participation in the University Honors Program is encouraged for those who qualify.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>