<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Elementary Education (K-6) &amp; Early Education (Age 3-Grade 3) 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="elementary-education-k-6-early-childhood-education-b-k-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Elementary Education (K-6) &amp; Early Education (Age 3-Grade 3)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Elementary Education (K-6) &amp; Early Education (Age 3-Grade 3)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 141-144</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.5 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Val Wiemeyer</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who complete this field endorsement may teach children in all elementary subjects in kindergarten through grade 6, in all schools. They may also teach in grades 7 and 8 in self-contained classrooms. Self-contained classrooms exist when students spend more than half the school day with one teacher who provides instruction in more than half of the academic areas of the curriculum. They will also have an emphasis in early childhood education. <span class="basic-text-bold">This program requires course work beyond a single endorsement and therefore exceeds 120 hours.</span></p>
<p class="title-1">General Information</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College offers undergraduate programs leading to a bachelor of science in education and human sciences degree in more than 40 different teaching endorsements. Some students in other UNL colleges choose to seek certification, completing a degree in their home college while meeting all requirements for teacher certification in the College of Education and Human Sciences.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Early field placement in public and private schools is a nationally recognized hallmark of the teacher education program in the College of Education and Human Sciences. While internships are a valuable enhancement to many students’ education, in the College of Education and Human Sciences, practicum experiences and student teaching are a critical and essential part of the teacher education curriculum and must be successfully completed. A student’s inability to complete these field experiences, for any reason, may adversely impact the candidate’s ability to gain admission into the College or maintain enrollment in a teacher preparation program. Students unlikely or unable to complete the field experience may be counseled to seek other opportunities where success is more attainable. (See “Criminal History Background Check Requirement” and “Professional and Ethical Behavior” under the OTHER heading for additional information with respect to behaviors impacting field experience participation.)</p>

<p class="basic-text">Teacher education endorsements (or majors) are divided into field endorsements or single-subject endorsements. Field endorsements certify the candidate to teach a broader range of courses compared to single-subject endorsements, which certify the candidate to teach in one subject area only. Consequently, a teacher holding a field endorsement is typically more marketable than a teacher holding a single-subject endorsement.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Candidates may also elect to complete requirements for supplemental endorsements; these are additional endorsements that can be added to a field or single-subject endorsement but cannot be taken alone. Supplemental endorsements require additional credit hours beyond those needed for the first endorsement (field or single-subject). Teachers may increase their marketability by adding supplemental endorsements.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may also choose to complete requirements for two endorsements simultaneously. Completing a second endorsement will require additional credit hours beyond those required for the first endorsement. Often the completion of two endorsements requires more than 120 credit hours of course work and may require additional semesters of course work. Students may contact the College Student Services Center, 105 Henzlik Hall, or their adviser, for assistance in deciding whether to complete: field or single-subject endorsements, one or more supplemental endorsements, or multiple endorsements.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>
<p class="basic-text">All education programs have a competitive admission process. At some point in time, after meeting specific education requirements, all students must formally apply to their particular education program.</p>
<p class="title-1">Pre-Education Status</p>
<p class="basic-text">All newly admitted students who are pursuing a teacher preparation program are classified as pre-education students until admitted to a specific Teacher Education Program.</p>
<p class="title-1">Admission to a Teacher Education Program (TEP)</p>
<p class="basic-text">Admission to the College of Education and Human Sciences does not guarantee admission into a teacher education program. Admission to the advanced phases of teacher education is selective and, in some endorsements, highly competitive. Students must satisfy the following requirements in order to be eligible to apply to the Teacher Education Program:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. A minimum 2.5 cumulative GPA.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Must have earned a minimum of 42 credit hours of college credit.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Completion and submission of the Teacher Education Program Application Form.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Completion of TEAC 331 and EDPS 251 or an approved transfer course, (must be taken prior to or be in progress, the semester in which you apply to the TEP) with a 2.5 cumulative average in the two classes, and no grade lower than C; TEAC 259 (must also be taken prior to or be in progress, the semester in which you apply to the TEP).</p>
<p class="numbered-list">5. Documentation of proficiency in reading, writing, and mathematics through successful completion of the Praxis I, Pre-Professional Skills Test (PPST) or CORE examination which is expected to replace the PPST, fall 2014, as the basic skills examination that meets the Nebraska Department of Education competency requirement.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">6. Successful completion of TEAC 297A practicum and one course in communication studies selected from COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 210, or ALEC 102.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">7. Completion of a formal criminal history review, for CEHS, by the vender approved by CEHS (fee required).</p>
<p class="numbered-list">8. Specific programs may have particular learning outcomes that students must address as part of the application process.</p>
<p class="title-1">Admission to Student Teaching</p>
<p class="basic-text">All students who are candidates for an appropriately endorsed Nebraska Teacher’s Certificate are required to student teach. Students who plan to student teach in the fall semester must complete the student teaching application form and submit it by the preceding March 1 to the Director of Field Experiences in 116 Henzlik Hall; students planning to student teach in the spring semester must apply by the preceding October 1. The basic program for student teaching provides for a full-day experience for an entire semester. Admission to student teaching requires the following:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Matriculation in a teacher education program in the College of Education and Human Sciences, the Graduate College, or dual matriculation in the College of Education and Human Sciences and another college.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Admission to a specific teacher education program.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Senior standing (89 hours or more) with a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.75 on a 4.0 scale.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Minimum grade point average of 2.5 in the endorsement area with no grade below C.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">5. A minimum grade point average of 2.5 in pre-professional and professional education courses and no grade below C in pre-professional education courses and no grade below a C+ in professional education courses.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">6. All endorsement, pre-professional and professional education course work must be completed prior to student teaching. If necessary, no more than 6 hours of general education (ACE) or elective classes can be completed after the student teaching experience.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">7. No additional course work can be taken during the student teaching semester unless prior approval is obtained from the Certification Officer, the Director of Field Experience, or the Department Chair that oversees the program.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">8. Completion of a second criminal history check that will be conducted, for CEHS, by the vender approved by CEHS (fee required). For more information, contact the Director of Field Experience or your adviser.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Endorsement Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Degree at a Glance</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Requirements 30</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 1. ENGL 101, ENGL 150, ENGL 151, ENGL 254 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 2. COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 210, ALEC 102 <span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-Professional Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 3. MATH 203, STAT 218 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 4. ASTR 103, GEOL 106, GEOL 109, GEOL 115, METR 140, NRES 108 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 5. ENGL 230A, ENGL 231, ENGL 260, ENGL 261, ENGL 305A 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 6. CYAF 160 <span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-Professional Education Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 7. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 8. TEAC 331 <span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-Professional Education Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 9. TEAC 330 <span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-Professional Education Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 10. TEAC 403A <span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Education Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p><span class="requirement-sec-2">Pre-Professional Education Requirements 9</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TEAC 259A 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TEAC 297A 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TEAC 380 2</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CYAF 380  3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ELED Endorsement Requirements 16</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course</span>: ENGL 216, ENGL 244, ENGL 244A, ENGL 244E or ENGL 245A, ENGL 245J, ENGL 245N or ENGL 344B, ENGL 344D or ENGL 345D 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course</span>: TEAC 213, TEAC 413A, TEAC 436, TEAC 438, TEAC 441, TEAC 446, TEAC 490, EDPS 251, ENGL 210 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course</span>: GEOG 140, GEOG 271, GEOG 272, POLS 100 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course</span>: HIST 100, HIST 101, HIST 110, HIST 111, HIST 171 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course</span>: BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L, CHEM 105, CHEM 109; GEOL 101, GEOL 103, METR 200, ENTO 115 &amp; ENTO 116, PHYS 260 &amp; PHYS 262, PHYS 261 &amp; PHYS 262 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Early Childhood Requirements 20</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CYAF 210 &amp; 210L 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CYAF 270 &amp; CYAF 270L 3</p>


<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CYAF 374 &amp; 374L 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TEAC 410 &amp;  CYAF 474 (3 hrs ea) 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CYAF 383 or 384 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Professional Education Requirements 63</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TEAC 297B, TEAC 317, &amp; TEAC 351 (2 hrs ea) 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TEAC 259B &amp; TEAC 297E (1 hr ea) 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TEAC 302, TEAC 305, TEAC 307, TEAC 308, TEAC 311, TEAC 313, TEAC 315, &amp; TEAC 397A (3 hrs ea) 24</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">MATH 300 &amp; MATH 302 (3 hrs ea) 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">SPED 401A 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">SPED 415/SPED 415A 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TEAC 497A 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CYAF 497A 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Electives 0</p>
<p><span class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 138</span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><strong>NOTE:</strong> All courses must be a C or above. All methods courses must be a C+ or above.</p>
<p class="title-1">ACE Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Requirements in Education Programs</p>
<p class="basic-text">Requirements for completion of an undergraduate degree in a teacher preparation program include a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.5. Students seeking certification must also have a 2.5 GPA in their endorsement and education courses with no grade lower than a C in their pre-professional courses and no grade lower than a C+ in their professional education courses.</p>
<p class="title-2">Transfer Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Up to 9 hours of transfer credit with grades below C may be applied to the General Education requirements and elective classes in programs leading to the undergraduate degree in teacher preparation. Transfer grades of C- and D may not be used in the major/endorsement area courses or in the professional courses in teacher preparation programs.</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Grade Option–for Education Students</p>
<p class="basic-text">A student enrolled at the University may, in certain instances, take a grading option of Pass/No Pass (P/N) for a specific course. A grade of pass represents satisfactory completion of a course with a grade of C or better. Credits earned under the pass grade option count toward graduation, but no grade points are tabulated in the cumulative grade point average. Likewise, a grade of no pass is not tabulated in the grade point average. The following rules apply to students who are enrolled in teacher preparation programs who choose the Pass/No Pass option:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Only one course in each subject endorsement may be taken P/N; two courses in a field endorsement may be taken P/N.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Pre-professional and professional education classes may not be taken P/N unless a class already has a P/N designation.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Any course in the general education requirements unless otherwise stipulated by the department of the course may be taken P/N.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Total P/N credits may not exceed 12 credit hours. This limit does not include courses offered on a P/N only basis.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL.</p>
<p class="title-2">Beyond Classroom Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">In all fields of study, students are expected to attain certain grades and other academic accomplishments in the classroom. In addition to this, students preparing themselves to be teachers, counselors and for other careers in education, are also reviewed to evaluate their ability to successfully and safely interact with children, parents, potential educational employers, and the community-at-large, whose interest in the education of its children often exceeds its concern for other community and governmental services.</p>


<p class="title-1">Student Teaching Placement</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Office of Field Experiences is responsible for the placement of student teachers. Several factors are considered in determining the district and school to which an individual is assigned. The availability of a cooperating teacher and supervisor who meet the requirements established by the Nebraska Department of Education and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln are among those factors. Opportunities to student teach out-of-state are limited and those placements are becoming increasingly difficult. All requests to student teach outside of the immediate Lincoln area must be individually reviewed and approved by the Director of Field Experience.</p>
<p class="title-1">Removal from Student Teaching</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students participating in practicum or student teaching assignments may be removed from their assigned schools if their conduct suggests a lack of professional commitment and presents a negative influence on the well-being or learning of the students in the schools. Specific guidelines that all student teachers are to follow can be found in The Student Teaching Experience: A Handbook for the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. If such a problem occurs, at the request of the cooperating teacher, building principal, or the College supervisor, the student will be removed from the school placement by the Director of Field Experience. In such cases, a written report stating the problem and efforts to correct the situation will be forwarded to the Director of Field Experience in the College Student Services Center.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Any student removed from a practicum or student teaching assignment may appeal that decision by submitting a written request to the College Appeals Committee within 30 days of the removal. The Appeals Committee will schedule a meeting, request pertinent information from the Director of Field Experiences, and notify the student several days in advance of the scheduled appeal meeting. Students are advised of their right to seek legal advice and may personally attend the Appeals Committee meeting. The Committee’s decision will be forwarded in writing to the student, to the Director of Field Experience, and to the Dean of the College.</p>
<p class="title-1">Praxis II</p>
<p class="basic-text">All students completing a program leading to a teaching certificate with an endorsement in elementary grades (grades K-6) will be required to take the EECIA-00011 version of Praxis II before graduation. Test completion will be documented through official test score results.</p>
<p class="title-1">Application for a Nebraska Teaching Certificate</p>
<p class="basic-text">To actively engage in the teaching profession, a candidate must fulfill both the College degree requirements and the professional certification requirements of the State of Nebraska, Department of Education. Students apply for the <span class="no-style-override-1">teaching certificate</span> online at www.education.ne.gov/tcert/ and apply for the <span class="no-style-override-1">baccalaureate degree</span> in 109 Canfield Administration Building.</p>
<p class="basic-text">To be eligible for a recommendation for certification, a candidate must meet the following requirements:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Earn one or more undergraduate degrees from the College of Education and Human Sciences or another accredited institution approved by the College of Education and Human Sciences with a minimum 2.5 grade point average.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Complete the teacher education general education requirements listed for elementary, middle grades or secondary education.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Complete professional education requirements according to established standards.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Complete endorsement(s) according to established standards.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">5. Successfully complete a required period of student teaching.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">6. Complete application for the degree and certificate.</p>
<p class="title-2">Graduation Without Certification</p>
<p class="basic-text">In <strong>rare</strong> cases, permission may be granted for a student to graduate without a recommendation for teacher certification (GWC).  In order to qualify for GWC a student must have senior class standing and be within two semesters of student teaching.  In addition the student:</p>
<p>1. must be unable to qualify for student teaching based on grades or other performance-based issues, or </p>
<p>2. be removed from student teaching, or </p>
<p>3. because of illness or other unusual situations, decides not to complete or is unable to complete all of the professional requirements in a teacher education program.  </p>
<p class="basic-text">If a student is unable to meet all of the requirements as described in the “Admission to Student Teaching” section, such as minimum course grade requirements for courses in the professional education sequence or in one’s content area, but still earns passing grades in those courses while maintaining the grade point average minimums, then the student may be eligible to GWC.</p>
<p class="basic-text">To apply for GWC, the student should contact his or her adviser, meet with the College’s Certification Officer, and then submit a formal request to the College’s Certification Officer to be allowed to graduate without completing all certification requirements. If permission is granted, the student is expected to complete all remaining content area and professional education requirements except student teaching. The requirements include passing grades in all remaining courses while maintaining the minimum grade point averages as specified in the “Admission to Student Teaching.” If a student begins student teaching but fails to complete at least one half of the assignment, the individual will be required to complete a culminating project not to exceed 6 credit hours. The student must still meet the ACE 10 general education requirement. Contact your adviser or the Certification Officer to make sure that this requirement is satisfied.</p>

<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold"><strong>Any student who graduates without a recommendation for certification will not be recommended for teacher certification in any state</strong>.</span> In addition, the student will not be eligible for graduation with honors. If, at some future time, the student wishes to complete certification requirements, (s)he must first appeal for readmission to a teacher education program. At least one semester must pass after graduation before the appeal can be made. If the appeal is granted, the student will be treated as a readmitted student and will complete all requirements in effect at the time of reentry, including passing grades in all methods courses.</p>
<p class="title-1">Education Employment Services</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Career Services Center, 230 Nebraska Union, offers a professional placement service to students and alumni who are seeking employment in education and related fields. In addition to providing on-campus interviews with select schools throughout the year, this office sponsors an annual Education Recruitment Day in the spring, which offers students an opportunity to interview with hiring officials from many schools.</p>
<p class="title-1">Criminal History Background Check Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS), along with the public and private schools and community agencies who provide services or programs for pre-school or school aged youth, are all keenly attuned to the safety of children. We have the responsibility to ensure that our students who interact with individuals served by schools or other agencies meet a high level of personal, professional and ethical behavior.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Nebraska Department of Education policy requires that a person with any felony conviction or a misdemeanor conviction involving assault, abuse, neglect, or sexual misconduct shall not be allowed to participate in pre-student teaching laboratory and classroom experiences or student teach without approval of the State Board of Education. In addition, the Department of Health and Human Services has created its own set of standards that apply to all individuals working in any capacity with pre-school children who are not yet in kindergarten. To comply with these two sets of standards, the College of Education and Human Sciences will require each student in a teacher education program to complete two formal reviews of their criminal history, which is conducted by the approved CEHS vender. The first review will be completed during the first semester of the individual’s entry into the College. This must be completed before one’s first field experience. The second criminal history background check will take place as part of the student teaching application process, culminating experience, or internship. Each student is responsible for the cost of the two criminal history reviews. If more than three years elapse after the initial background check is conducted, the College reserves the right to require that one or more additional background checks be completed. Eighteen months after the initial Criminal History Background Check, undergraduate students are required to complete the CEHS self-disclosure report. Graduate students will be required to complete the self-disclosure report at the same time the initial background check is conducted.  </p>
<p class="basic-text">If a student has any felony or any misdemeanor charges or convictions, as reported on the background check, the student will be contacted by the College and may be required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Field Experience. This meeting will be held so that the student can receive guidance with respect to the impact of the charge or conviction on the student’s future in the College and one’s ability to find success in the profession of education. <strong>If any new charges or convictions are acquired after either background check, the student is required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Field Experience within two weeks after the event occurs. Failure to disclose any new information concerning one’s criminal history can lead to removal from the program.</strong> A student’s ability to continue to participate in any teacher education program in the College will be based on the type and number of convictions, the recentness of their occurrence, and whether or not they are in violation of the requirements of the Department of Health and Human Services and/or the Nebraska Department of Education standards as they apply to working with pre-school and school age youth.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences aims to train and graduate teachers of the highest caliber possible, and therefore, the standards the College sets for its students may be more stringent than the rules the Department of Education sets for field experience. A student should not assume that merely because the State Board of Education would approve placement in the field, that the College is willing to make such a placement, or that a participating partner school is willing to accept the student’s placement into its midst.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The consequences of one conviction compared to another may vary significantly, depending upon the facts underlying the convictions. In some instances, the behavior associated with the conviction may be so egregious as to render placement in a field experience virtually impossible. In such instances, termination or long-term suspension from a teaching program may be appropriate. In other instances, a responsible passage of time without further criminal incident may indicate that the student has matured and is ready to reconvene his or her education. Consequences will very likely be different from case to case, as each of these difficult matters is unique. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that the safety of children in the classroom, the best interest of the student, and the reputation of the College, are all recognized and promoted. Failure to honestly disclose a conviction may be cause for disciplinary action including possible removal from the program. Students willing to honestly address the challenges that arise from the past mistakes are more likely to reach a favorable outcome, than those who further jeopardize their integrity with a lie.</p>

<p class="title-2">Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to criminal convictions, other non-criminal behaviors which: involve risks that are unacceptable for future teachers and the children charged to their care; demonstrate a lack of professionalism and good judgment; and evidence a disregard for one’s personal reputation, the integrity of the College and the teaching profession, may bring into question a student’s ability to be successful in an education career. Before engaging in such questionable behavior, students must consider how the College, the profession, educational employer, parents of school-aged children, and the community which is the State of Nebraska, would perceive or evaluate the impact of that behavior with respect to the students’ ability to serve children. To be allowed to teach is a great honor and a great responsibility. Teaching is a profession that requires its potential candidates to be individuals of the highest integrity. Prospective teachers must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and for their students. They serve as important role models and mentors for children during very impressionable years. Teachers are responsible for the education, safety and well-being for anyone in their charge. Indeed, teachers hold the future of all in their care. Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences is most interested in training future teachers who show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act responsibly. These individuals must be able to serve as representatives of our College and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. These standards and practices also apply to individuals in CEHS programs intended to serve children in a community setting.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should the College, through the reasonable exercise of the judgment of its Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience, determine that a student’s individual behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons and others in the educational community, the College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to deny entry to or dismiss such a student from any program which leads to certification or to service of children in a community agency. More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum, pre-practicum, student teaching or similar field experience, since the interests and safety of the children, and young people present in the classroom, schools and other venues where these practicum experiences take place are paramount.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Problematic behaviors, which the College of Education and Human Sciences reasonably determines renders the candidate a risk to the educational community or demonstrates a likelihood of illegal activity, may be established by any credible means, including the facts surrounding a record of arrests and/or convictions.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Similarly, behaviors which result in a finding by a court or other governmental body that the individual is:</p>
<ul>
<li>a mentally ill and dangerous person;</li>
<li>mentally incompetent to stand trial;</li>
<li>acquitted of criminal charges because of insanity;</li>
<li>an incapacitated person;</li>
<li>a person in need of a guardian or conservator, or;</li>
<li>a person unable to manage his or her property due to mental illness, mental deficiency, or chronic use of drugs or chronic intoxication are the kind of behaviors which are likely to disqualify a candidate from participation in practicum experiences and other College of Education and Human Sciences programs.</li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">Similar to the discussion concerning criminal convictions above, the consequences for unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will very likely be different in each case, due to the unique circumstances involved in each matter. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that safety in the classroom, the reputation of the College, and the best interest of the student, are all recognized and promoted.</p>
<p class="title-2">Appeal to the Dean</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience with respect to a criminal behavior matter, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing within no greater than ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student’s written appeal shall clearly explain to the Dean the basis for the student’s appeal. The Dean will review the student’s basis for appeal, and is authorized, but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student’s written appeal. The Dean is authorized to collect such additional information as she or he deems necessary to review an investigation (including but not limited to the student’s educational records maintained by the College, other documentation, personal interviews and meetings with the student, College faculty, administration and staff, and others with relevant information). The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possibly, but in no case longer than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience or both, a written decision, which decision shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review within the University of Nebraska.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
