<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Energy Science Minor 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="energy-science-minor-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Energy Science Minor</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Energy Science Minor</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 18</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> </p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator:</span> <span class="faculty-list-bold">Adam Liska</span>, 203 Chase Hall</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Fulginiti, Hay, Markwell, Perrin</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website:</span> http://energysciences.unl.edu</p>
<p class="basic-text">The energy science minor is designed to offer an educational component to University of Nebraska students that will prepare them with the knowledge, expertise, and background to successfully compete for positions with companies that are producing or developing renewable energy sources or conventional fossil fuels sources or with organizations that manage energy use or the environmental impacts of energy use. The minor is for students who desire a broad understanding of energy-related issues and an in-depth knowledge of energy in one or more of four elective thematic areas as well as for those seeking employment in agriculture, business/industry, communication, transportation, and government.</p>

<p class="title-2">Courses of Instruction (ENSC)</p>
<p class="basic-text">Courses suitable for automatic inclusion in one of the four elective thematic areas have been identified and can be viewed at the website http://energysciences.unl.edu/tracks. Any of the above ENSC courses can be taken independently as desired by any student.</p>
<p class="basic-text">A student in consultation with an academic adviser will submit a "College-Degree-Major-Adviser Change Form" (CDMA) declaring their intent to complete the minor before the deadline for submitting the application for graduation. The degree audit system of the University Registrar will evaluate whether the appropriate courses have been taken for completion of the minor. The minor will be recorded on the student’s transcript upon graduation.</p>
<div style="width: 1px; height: 1px; overflow: hidden; position: fixed; top: 10px; left: 10px;">
<p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-indent: 0.25in; line-height: 12.95pt; vertical-align: baseline; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'inherit','serif'; mso-fareast-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: #333333;">Courses suitable for automatic inclusion in one of the four elective thematic areas have been identified and can be <span style="border: none windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-alt: none windowtext 0in; padding: 0in; background: #CCEEFF;">viewed at the website <span style="text-decoration: underline;">http://energysciences.unl.edu/tracks</span>. Any of the above ENSC courses can be taken independently as desired by any student.</span></span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-bottom: 0.0001pt; text-indent: 0.25in; line-height: 12.95pt; vertical-align: baseline; background-position: initial initial; background-repeat: initial initial;"><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'inherit','serif'; mso-fareast-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: #333333;">A student in consultation with an academic adviser will submit a "College-Degree-Major-Adviser Change Form" (CDMA) declaring their intent to complete the minor before the deadline for submitting the application for graduation. The degree audit system of the University Registrar will evaluate whether the appropriate courses have been taken for completion of the minor. The minor will be recorded on the student’s transcript upon graduation.</span></p>
</div>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>

<p class="basic-text">A minor in energy science (ENSC) will include a minimum of 18 credit hours of energy-related courses including four core courses.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Core Courses 10</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENSC 110 Energy in Perspective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENSC 220 Introduction to Energy Systems 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENSC 230 Energy &amp; the Environment: Economics &amp; Policy 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENSC 300 Energy Science Seminar 1</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">The remaining energy-related courses must come from one or more of the four elective thematic tracks</p>
<ul>
<li>Energy and Natural Resources</li>
<li>Plant and Animal Bioenergy</li>
<li>Energy Engineering</li>
<li>Energy Economics, Policy, and Human Dimensions</li>
</ul>
<p class="header-paragraph">or be approved by the student’s academic adviser and the minor coordinator.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Additionally, optional courses for elective credit include:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENSC 499H Honors Thesis (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENSC 496 Independent Study in Energy Science (1 cr), or</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENSC 311 Energy Science Study Tour (1 cr)</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">At least 6 credit hours must be at the 300 or 400 level and up to 3 hours of energy-related independent study course work or Honors thesis may be included.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>