<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Engineering Mechanics Minor 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="engineering-mechanics-minor-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="no-style-override">Engineering Mechanics Minor</span></p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Engineering Mechanics (Minor only) </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 12</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>This minor is for engineering majors ONLY.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>The College of Engineering enables its students to participate in this approved minor subject to the following conditions:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. A minor will not reduce or alter the existing course or degree requirements for students electing to pursue a minor.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. A student’s minor program must be organized and approved by an adviser prior to the submission of the senior check to the department chair or head.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. The minor must be approved by the adviser, the department chair or head, the Dean and the cognizant program offering the minor.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>4. The College of Engineering will follow the “Plan A/B” format of the Arts and Sciences College in which a student pursuing a single minor must complete the “Plan A” requirements. A student pursuing a double (or greater) minor must fulfill either the “Plan A” or “Plan B” requirements for both minors depending on which plan is offered by the cognizant department.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>5. Minors on the Lincoln or Omaha campuses may be added by approval of the College of Engineering Curriculum Committee and faculty.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A Minor</span>. 12 credit hours beyond the regular undergraduate engineering mechanics sequence (MECH 223, MECH 325, MECH 373 or MECH 250, MECH 351). These may be chosen from 300- and 400-level courses offered by engineering mechanics, excluding those courses required in the student’s curriculum by the major department.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
