<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Global Securities Studies Minor 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="global-securities-studies-minor-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Global Security Studies Minor</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Global Security Studies (Minor only)</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 18</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">chief adviser:</span> Patrice McMahon</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Patrice McMahon </span>(political science)</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Faculty: </span>Krone (communication studies), McMahan (political science), Minter (English), Narumalani (geography/School of Natural Resources), Thomas (history), White (political science)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The undergraduate global security studies minor (GSST) is an interdisciplinary program that provides undergraduates across campus (any department or college) with relevant knowledge of various aspects of global security and the theory and analytical skills necessary for dealing with global security studies issues. Students interested in global security issues, security-related job opportunities, or a desire to have a set of analytical skills relevant to global issues will benefit from the GSST. Students who have completed the GSST requirements will, upon graduation, receive a minor in global security studies.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The minor requires 18 credit hours of course work with a grade of B- or better, a 3 credit hour capstone course (GSST 475) and an experiential learning internship (variable 1-3 credit hours) for a total of 22-24 credit hours.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Undergraduate Global Security Studies Minor (22-24 hours)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Four principles train students to analyze systematically and coherently global security issues, develop writing and critical thinking skills, negotiate multiple and competing interests, and develop in-depth knowledge and application in substantive international policy issue(s). <span class="basic-text-bold">Certain special topics courses not listed below that have a significant global security component may also be eligible for inclusion in a student’s minor program plan. Approval of chief adviser is required to include courses not listed below.</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>1. CORE Courses 6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Cover the theories, processes, models, and methods of global security studies and security policy analysis.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 160 International Relations 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 261 Conflict &amp; Conflict Resolution <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> POLS 263 Causes of War &amp; Peace 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Writing and Analysis Courses 6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Develop writing and critical thinking/analysis skills that are relevant to the intelligence community. Choose two of the following – one course from Writing and one course from Critical Thinking/Analysis for a total of 6 hours. No more than 3 hours of courses taken to meet any degree requirement may be used to meet the Rhetoric and Analysis requirements of 6 hours for the Global Security Studies minor.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Writing 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGL 151 Writing: Rhetoric as Argument</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>JOUR 102 The Art of Writing</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>JOUR 444 Science Writing</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Critical Thinking/Analysis 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>COMM 210 Communicating in Small Groups</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>COMM 211 Intercultural Communication</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>COMM 212 Debate</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>COMM 312 Argumentation</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PHIL 220 Elements of Ethics</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PHIL 221 Political Philosophy</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PHIL 265 Philosophy of Religion</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PSYC 350 Research Methods &amp; Data Analysis</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>SOCI 205 Introduction to Social Research I</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>SOCI 206 Introduction to Social Research II</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>3. Specialization 6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Students will develop a plan of study in consultation with the global security studies minor coordinator. Courses will be selected from the areas below. (6 hours or two courses within a specialization are required. Students are responsible for checking and meeting prerequisites to some of the courses.)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Area A: Political/Economics</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 362 Globalization, Human Rights, &amp; Diversity </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 470 International Human Rights</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 472 State Terror</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 476 Ethnic Conflict &amp; Identity</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 303 US Military History, 1607-1917</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 363 USA Foreign Policy</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 463 American Foreign Policy &amp; the Use of the Military</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>GEOG 447 Political Geography</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 462 Security in the Post-Cold War Era</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 479/POLS 466 Pro-seminar in International Relations I</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 479 Insurgency, Guerilla Warfare, &amp; Terrorism</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 321 Introduction to International Economics</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 388 Comparative Economic Systems</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 421 International Trade</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 422 International Finance</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 423 Economics of the Less Developed Countries</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ECON 487 Economies in Transition</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 272 Non-Western Politics</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 274 Developmental Politics in East Asia</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 275 Post-Communist Politics &amp; Change</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 277 Latin American Politics</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 281 Challenges to the State</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 326 Algeria &amp; France</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 372 Russian Politics</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>POLS 376 Chinese Politics</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Area B: Cultural</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 181/POLS 171 Introduction to East Asian Civilization</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 214 History of Islam</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 326 Algeria &amp; France</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 429 History of Fascism in Europe</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 466 Early Modern China</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 467 History of China in the 20th Century</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 480 The Social &amp; Economic History of China since the Late Ming Era</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 108 World Religions</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 181 Judaism, Christianity &amp; Islam</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 208 Introduction to Islam</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 217 Israel: The Holy Land</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 318 Islam in the Modern World</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>RELG 418 Fundamentalism, Religion &amp; Politics</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>SOCI 452 Sociology of Religion</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ANTH 353 Anthropology of War</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ANTH 366 Peoples &amp; Cultures of East Asia</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ANTH 420 Ethnic Identity &amp; Ethnic Conflict</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>COMM 312 Argumentation</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>COMM 371 Communication in Negotiation &amp; Conflict Resolution</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>COMM 375 Theories of Persuasion</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>COMM 487 Global Organizational Communication</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Area C: Languages </p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>(Students may choose courses based on fluency level and input from the GSST adviser).</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Arabic</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ARAB 101 Beginning Arabic I</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ARAB 102 Beginning Arabic II</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ARAB 201* Second-Year Arabic I</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>ARAB 202* Second-year Arabic II</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Chinese</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CHIN 101 Beginning Chinese I</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CHIN 102 Beginning Chinese II</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CHIN 201 Second-Year Chinese I</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CHIN 202 Second-Year Chinese II</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CHIN 303 Third Year Chinese</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CHIN 304 Advanced Conversation &amp; Composition Chinese</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Russian</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>RUSS 101 Beginning Russian I</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>RUSS 102 Beginning Russian II</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>RUSS 201 Second-Year Russian I</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>RUSS 202 Second-Year Russian II</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>RUSS 203 Composition &amp; Conversation I</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>RUSS 204 Composition &amp; Conversation II</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>RUSS 303 Advanced Conversation &amp; Composition: Russian Language through the Russian Press</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>RUSS 304 Advanced Composition, Grammar, &amp; Conversation</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Area D: Scientific/Technical</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>GEOG 217 Mapping Science in the 21st Century</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>GEOG 312 Introduction to Geospatial Information Sciences</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>GEOG 412 Introduction to Geographic Information Systems</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>GEOG 418 Introduction to Remote Sensing</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>GEOG 420 Digital Image Analysis of Remote Sensing Data</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>GEOG 444 Geo-demographics &amp; GIS</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>4. Capstone Course and Experiential Learning: 6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-note" xml:lang='en-us'>Global Experience; study abroad, internship, fieldwork. Students will take a one-semester global securities capstone course (GSST 475) followed by one of two options: 1) a study abroad and/or internship experience; or 2) a summer study-abroad experience. The global experience occurs after completing or during the last semester of course work for the GSST. The global security studies minor coordinator will help students find an appropriate study abroad or internship experience. Academic requirements for the internship will be set by the GSST adviser and it is preferred that this experience be in the student’s area of expertise or associated with the language area of specialization (AREA C). Students must complete a report associated with their global experience.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>GSST 475 Threats &amp; Solutions to Global Security in the 21st Century </p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>Students must meet with the GSST coordinator to set up a plan of study. For more information or to enroll in the minor program, contact Tyler White, Department of Political Science, 509 Oldfather Hall, 402-472-9443. Email: twhite4@unl.edu.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
