<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Global Security Studies Minor 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="global-security-studies-minor-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Global Security Studies Minor</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Global Security Studies Minor</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 21</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Tyler R. White</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Kevin Smith </span>(political science)</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span></p>
<p class="basic-text">The undergraduate global security studies minor (GSST) is an interdisciplinary program that provides undergraduates across campus (any department or college) with relevant knowledge of various aspects of global security and the theory and analytical skills necessary for dealing with global security studies issues. Students interested in global security issues, security-related job opportunities, or a desire to have a set of analytical skills relevant to global issues will benefit from the GSST. Students who have completed the GSST requirements will, upon graduation, receive a minor in global security studies.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The minor requires 21 credit hours of course work with a grade of B- or better, including a 3 credit hour capstone course (GSST 475). </p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p><span></span><span class="title-1">Undergraduate Global Security Studies Minor (21 Hours)</span></p>
<p class="basic-text title-1"><span>Four principles train students to systematically and coherently analyze global security issues, develop writing and critical thinking skills, negotiate multiple and competing interests, and develop in-depth knowledge and application in substantive international policy issue(s). <span class="basic-text-bold">Certain special topics courses not listed below that have a significant global security component may also be eligible for inclusion in a students minor program plan. Approval of chief adviser is required to include courses not listed below.</span></span></p>
<p class="requirement-hours"><span>Hours</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="reqdesc"><span>1. CORE Course</span></span><span class="reqvalue"><span>s (3 credits)</span></span><span></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span>Cover the theories, processes, models, and methods of global security studies and security policy analysis. Choose from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span>POLS 160</span><span class="reqdesc"><span> International Relations</span></span><span></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="reqvalue"><span>GSST 175 </span></span><span class="reqvalue"><span>Introduction to National Security</span></span><span></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="reqdesc"><span>2. Writing and Analysis Courses</span></span><span class="reqvalue"><span> (6 credits)</span></span><span></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span>Develop writing and critical thinking/analysis skills that are relevant to the national security establishment. Choose two of the following one course from Writing and one course from Critical Thinking/Analysis for a total of 6 hours. No more than 3 hours of courses taken to meet any degree requirement may be used to meet the Rhetoric and Analysis requirements of 6 hours for the Global Security Studies minor.</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="reqdesc"><span>Writing </span></span><span class="reqvalue"><span>(3 credits). Choose from:</span></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span><span>GSST 375</span> Writing &amp; Briefing for the National Security Enterprise</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span>ENGL 151</span><span> Writing: Rhetoric as Argument</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span>JOUR 102</span><span> The Art of Writing</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="reqdesc"><span>Critical Thinking/Analysis </span></span><span class="reqvalue"><span>(3 credits). Choose from:</span></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-sec-3"><span class="reqvalue"><span><span>GSST 376</span> Analysis for the National Security Establishment</span></span><span></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span>COMM 312</span><span> Argumentation</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span>PSYC 350</span><span> Research Methods &amp; Data Analysis</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span>SOCI 205</span><span> Introduction to Social Research I</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span>SOCI 206</span><span> Introduction to Social Research II</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="reqdesc"><span>3. </span></span><span>Topics in Security (9 credits)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span>Students will develop a plan of study in consultation with the global security studies minor coordinator. Courses will be selected from the list below. (3 hours of 300 level and above and an additional 3 hours of 400 level and above credit required). Choose from:</span></p>

<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 353 Anthropology of War</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOG 217 Mapping Science in the 21st Century</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOG 312 Introduction to Geospatial Information Sciences</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOG 412 Introduction to Geographic Information Systems</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOG 418 Introduction to Remote Sensing</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOG 420 Digital Image Analysis of Remote Sensing Data</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOG 444 Geo-demographic &amp; GIS</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HIST 304 U.S. Military History since 1917</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span><ins class="ins cts-2" title="Inserted by Judy Anderson - 01/24/2014 4:00pm" data-cid="46" data-userid="1138" data-username="Judy Anderson" data-time="1390600805847"><ins class="ins cts-2" title="Inserted by Judy Anderson - 01/24/2014 4:01pm" data-cid="55" data-userid="1138" data-username="Judy Anderson" data-time="1390600892173">HIST 326 Algeria &amp; France</ins></ins></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span><ins class="ins cts-2" title="Inserted by Judy Anderson - 01/24/2014 4:00pm" data-cid="46" data-userid="1138" data-username="Judy Anderson" data-time="1390600805847"><ins class="ins cts-2" title="Inserted by Judy Anderson - 01/24/2014 4:01pm" data-cid="58" data-userid="1138" data-username="Judy Anderson" data-time="1390600904005">HIST 368 History of Terrorism in the Modern World</ins></ins></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span><ins class="ins cts-2" title="Inserted by Judy Anderson - 01/24/2014 4:00pm" data-cid="46" data-userid="1138" data-username="Judy Anderson" data-time="1390600805847"><ins class="ins cts-2" title="Inserted by Judy Anderson - 01/24/2014 4:01pm" data-cid="60" data-userid="1138" data-username="Judy Anderson" data-time="1390600918423">HIST 425 History of Radical Islam</ins></ins></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span><ins class="ins cts-2" title="Inserted by Judy Anderson - 01/24/2014 4:00pm" data-cid="46" data-userid="1138" data-username="Judy Anderson" data-time="1390600805847">POLS 261 Conflict &amp; Conflict Resolution</ins></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span>POLS 263 Causes of War &amp; Peace</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span>POLS 362</span><span> Globalization, Human Rights, &amp; Diversity </span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span>POLS 363 U.S.A. Foreign Policy</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span>POLS 375 Conflict &amp; Development in Africa</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span>POLS 398 Transnational Criminal Network</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span>POLS 470</span><span> International Human Rights</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span>POLS 472</span><span> State Terror</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span>POLS 476</span><span> Ethnic Conflict &amp; Identity</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span></span><span></span><span>POLS 463</span><span> American Foreign Policy &amp; the Use of the Military</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span>POLS 462</span><span> Security in the Post-Cold War Era </span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span>POLS 479</span><span> Insurgency, Guerilla Warfare, &amp; Terrorism</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span></span><span></span><span>PSYC 498 Psychology of Terrorism</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span>RELG 318</span><span> Islam in the Modern World</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span>RELG 418</span><span> Fundamentalism, Religion &amp; Politics</span><span></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span></span><span></span><span></span><span></span><span></span><span></span><span></span><span></span><span></span><span></span><span></span><span></span><span></span><span></span><span class="reqdesc requirement-sec-1"><span>4. Capstone Course </span></span><span class="reqvalue requirement-sec-1"><span>(3 credits)</span></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-sec-3-note">Students will take a one-semester global securities capstone course. </span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note requirement-sec-3"><span>GSST 475</span><span> Threats &amp; Solutions to Global Security in the 21st Century </span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span>Students must meet with the GSST coordinator to set up a plan of study. For more information or to enroll in the minor program, contact Tyler R. White, Department of Political Science, 514 Oldfather Hall, 402-472-9443. Email: twhite4@unl.edu.</span></p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>