<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>History.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="history">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>History</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> History</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Ann Tschetter</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: William Thomas, </span>609 Oldfather Hall</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Ambrosius, Berger, Borstelmann, A. Burnett, Cahan, Coble, Jacobs, Kleimola, LeSueur, Levin, Mahoney, Thomas, Winkle</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Akers, Coope, Garza, Gorman, J. Jones, P. Jones, Lawrence, Smith</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Ari, Curry, Der Matossian, Jagodinsky, Rehbein, Steinacher</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Department of History offers topical and period courses of general cultural and educational value to all University students to broaden their range of historical experience and sense of perspective. The particular aim of the history program is not only to provide knowledge for students who are preparing for a career in education, but also to give instruction that will aid those with interests in law, journalism, library, and museum work; in local, state, and national public service; and in business where a knowledge of domestic and foreign affairs is particularly useful.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Honors Program.</span> The Department of History offers a four-year program of honors work beginning with honors sections in the introductory courses for freshmen and sophomores. For upperclassmen, the Departmental Honors Program consists of directed reading courses and seminars. In the senior year, an honors student is expected to prepare an honors thesis for a bachelor of arts degree with distinction.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work. </span>The Department of History offers the advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy. For details of these programs, see the <span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span>.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Specific Major Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The minimum requirement for a major in history is 32 credit hours. This requirement must include the following:</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>6 credit hours in United States or Canadian history.</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>6 credit hours in European history (including British history).</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>6 credit hours in either Latin American, Asian or African history.</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>6 credit hours in the pre-1800 period. </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 250 The Historian’s Craft in the sophomore year or the semester after declaring history as a major.</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>HIST 450 Capstone Seminar in the senior year</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required:</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. To maintain and assemble a portfolio to include three examples of written work. The undergraduate adviser will inform students of the required contents, deadlines, and procedures.</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. In their senior year, to complete an exit survey or participate in an exit interview. The undergraduate adviser will inform students of the scheduling and format of this assessment activity.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Results of participation in this assessment activity will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Department of History accepts no more than 3 hours of credit taken Pass/No Pass for either a major or minor. This provision excludes HIST 398, which can only be taken Pass/No Pass.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Course Level Requirement</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">18 credit hours at the 300 and/or 400 level.</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1"> 18 hours including 6 hours in courses numbered 300 and above.</li>
			</ul>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
