<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Hospitality, Restaurant & Tourism Management (CEHS) 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="hospitality-restaurant-tourism-management-cehs-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Hospitality, Restaurant & Tourism Management (CEHS)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education & Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Hospitality, Restaurant & Tourism Management (CEHS)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts in Hospitality, Restaurant & Tourism Management</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Cameya Ramirez-Rousseau</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>

<p>This program integrates leadership, communications and financial management into a curriculum focused on managing facilities and operations that provide hospitality services to the public. As part of the program, students also complete the Leadership and Communications minor offered by the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources (CASNR). The Hospitality, Restaurant and Tourism Management Program (HRTM) prepares individuals to serve as entry level managers and directors of hospitality operations by providing an excellent foundation in hospitality, leadership, and guest services.<br /><strong></strong></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>


<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>


<p><strong> Degree at a Glance</strong></p>
<p><strong>ACE Requirements 30</strong></p>
<p>ACE 1.                                                                                                            3</p>
<p>ACE 2.                                                                                                            3</p>
<p>ACE 3.                                                                                                            3</p>
<p>ACE 4.                                                                                                            3</p>
<p>ACE 5.                                                                                                            3</p>
<p>ACE 6.                                                                                                            3</p>
<p>ACE 7.                                                                                                            3</p>
<p>ACE 8.                                                                                                            3</p>
<p>ACE 9.                                                                                                            3</p>
<p>ACE 10.          HRTM 479                                                                               3</p>

<p><strong>HRTM Core Requirements45-48</strong></p>
<p>ACCT 201 <strong>or</strong> **ACCT 200                                                                           3</p>
<p>AGRI 103/NRES 103                                                                                                3</p>
<p>**ECON 200 <strong>or</strong> ECON 211 &amp; ECON 212                                                   3-6</p>
<p>EDPS 209                                                                                                       3</p>
<p>HRTM 171 &amp; HRTM 172 &amp; HRTM 397 (1 hr ea)                                        3</p>
<p>HRTM 310 &amp; HRTM 360 <strong>or</strong> MRKT 341 <strong>or</strong> **MRKT 300 (3 hrs ea)          6</p>
<p>HRTM 374, HRTM 476, HRTM 483 <strong>or</strong> **FINA 300 (3 hrs ea)                  9</p>
<p><em>Select two courses from the following:                                                            </em>6</p>
<p>HRTM 274, HRTM 280, HRTM 285, HRTM 289 </p>
<p><em>Select one course from the following:                                                             </em>3</p>
<p>HRTM 481, **BLAW 300, BLAW 371, BLAW 372, AECN 256, AECN 357</p>
<p><em>Select one course from the following:                                                             </em>3</p>
<p>HORT 200, HORT 261, TMFD 121 </p>
<p><em>Select one course from the following:                                                             </em>3</p>
<p>JGEN 120, JGEN 200, JGEN 300 </p>
<p><strong>Leadership &amp; Communications Minor                                                       18</strong></p>
<p><em>Select three courses from the following:                                                          </em>9</p>
<p>ALEC 102, ALEC 202, ALEC 302, ALEC 305</p>
<p><em>Select three courses from the following:                                                          </em>9</p>
<p>ALEC 337, ALEC 388, ALEC 407, ALEC 410, ALEC 414, ALEC 466, ALEC 477, ALEC 488, AERO 331 <strong>or</strong> AERO 332 (May be substituted for Air Force ROTC student only)</p>

<p><strong>HRTM Professional Electives                                                                                  21</strong></p>
<p><em>Select 21 hours from the following. Must fulfill prereqs; no substitutions.</em></p>
<p>AECN/EAEP 225 <strong>or</strong> AECN 376 (3 hrs)</p>
<p>ALEC 428/NRES 428 (3 hrs)</p>
<p>CRPL 400 <strong>or</strong> CRPL 420 <strong>or</strong> CRPL 480 (3 hrs)</p>
<p>EAEP 101 (1 hr)</p>
<p>EAEP 121 (3 hrs)</p>
<p>EAEP 288A (2 hrs)</p>
<p>EAEP 321 (3 hrs)</p>
<p>EAEP 421 (3 hrs)</p>
<p>EAEP 488 (3 hrs)</p>
<p>ENTR 322 (hrs)</p>
<p>ENTR 422A (3 hrs)</p>
<p>ENTR 291 <strong>or</strong> **FINA 300 <strong>or</strong> FINA 307 <strong>or</strong> HORT 489 (3 hrs)</p>
<p>HRTM 373, HRTM 472, HRTM 474, HRTM 477, HRTM 478, HRTM 484, HRTM 485, HRTM 489, <strong>or</strong> HRTM 495 (1-6 cr) (3 hrs)</p>
<p>HRTM 296, HRTM 396, <strong>or</strong> HRTM 496 (1-3 hrs)</p>
<p>HRTM 291 <strong>or</strong> HRTM 391 (1-6 hrs)</p>
<p>**MNGT 300, MNGT 320, MNGT 361, <strong>or</strong> MNGT 365 (3 hrs)</p>
<p>NUTR 343, NUTR 372, <strong>or</strong> HORT/NUTR/HRTM 471 (3 hrs)</p>
<p><strong> </strong><strong>Electives                                                                                                                     3-6</strong></p>
<p><strong> </strong><strong>Total Hours                                                                                                                120</strong></p>
<p class="basic-text">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE: </span>Students have the option to complete the Business Minor for Non-Business students offered through the College of Business Administration. <span class="basic-text-bold">Courses that meet this requirement are identified with (**). </span>A Change of College, Degree, Major and/or Adviser (CDMA) form will need to be filled out in order to add the minor to the student’s degree audit. The CDMA form can be filled out in the CEHS Advising Center. All business classes must be taken for grade.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences offers an 19 hour minor in Hospitality, Restaurant and Tourism Management for students in CASNR and the CEHS Departments of Child, Youth and Family; Nutrition and Health Sciences; and Textile, Merchandising and Fashion Design.</p>
<p class="title-1"><strong>Requirements</strong></p>
<p class="basic-text-no-indent">All grades must be a C or above.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><strong>Required 1 hour</strong>:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 171 Career Exploration in Hospitality Management</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><strong>Select 6 hours:</strong></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 274 Introduction to Food &amp; Beverage Management</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 280 Introduction to Tourism</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 285 Introduction to the Lodging Industry</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 289 Introduction to the Event Industry</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><strong>Select 12 hours:</strong></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 360 Hospitality &amp; Tourism Marketing</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 373 Catering</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 374 Guest Services Management</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 472 Fine Food &amp; Wine</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 474 Food &amp; Beverage Management</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 477 Hospitality Facility Planning &amp; Purchasing</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 478 Tourism Resources &amp; Development</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 481 Legal Environment in Hospitality Management</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 484 Human Resources in the Hospitality Industry</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 485 Advanced Lodging Operations</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 489 Advanced Event Operations</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 495 Hospitality Management Study Tour</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 471 Vines, Wine &amp; You</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>