<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Insect Science 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="insect-science-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Insect Science</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Insect Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Insect Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Tiffany Heng-Moss</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator: Professor Tiffany Heng-Moss,</span> 105A Entomology Hall, thengmoss2@unl.edu</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website:</span> http://entomology.unl.edu/insect_science/index.shtml</p>
<p class="basic-text">The field of insect science encompasses the agricultural, biological, and environmental sciences related to insects and their interactions with humans. Insects and their relatives are the most abundant animals on earth, are commonly found in all habitats, and are essential in maintaining our ecosystem. Insect Science offers numerous career opportunities in both basic and applied fields.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The core curriculum provides students with a balanced education focusing on insect identification, biology, structure and function, behavior, ecology, and diversity, as well as courses in mathematics, science, and the humanities. In addition to the core, there are two options from which students can select an area of focus which meets their own interest and career objectives.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Core Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">The following basic courses are required for majors in insect science. In addition, students must select and meet the requirements of one of the options, depending on their own individual interests and career objectives.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The minimum requirements of CASNR reflect the common core of courses that apply to students pursuing degrees in the college. Students should work with an adviser to satisfy ACE outcomes 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and 10 with the college requirements.</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-1">College Integrative Course 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRI 103 Introduction to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems (NRES 103) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 485 Current Issues in Entomology<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 10)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Departmental Requirements 8</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 115 Insect Biology (BIOS 115) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 116 Insect Identification (BIOS 116) 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 400 Biology &amp; Classification of Insects 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Experiential Learning for Career Development in Insect Science 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from the following four categories: Maximum of 3 hours from any one category.</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 309 Career Experience</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 395A Research Experience (Arranged through adviser)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 395B Teaching Experience (Arranged through adviser)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 395E Extension Experience (Arranged through adviser)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Mathematics and Statistics <span class="requirement-ital">(beyond college algebra) (ACE 3)</span> 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Select from: MATH 102, MATH 103, MATH 104, MATH 106, or STAT 218</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> <span class="requirement-ital">Proficiency at the college algebra level must be demonstrated either by a placement exam or through course work. If MATH 103 is taken, only 2 cr hrs can be counted toward this requirement</span>.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Communication 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Written Communication <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 1)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> ENGL 150, ENGL 151, ENGL 254; JGEN 120, JGEN 200</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Communications and Interpersonal Skills <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> ALEC 102; COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 286, JGEN 300</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Natural Sciences 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CASNR Approved Life Sciences <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 4)</span> 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 206 General Genetics <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> AGRO 315 Genetics 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Economics, Humanities and Social Sciences 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 211 or ECON 212 or AECN 141 <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 6)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Courses 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Select one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, and 9.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Major Requirements 57</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Option Requirements 42-44</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Free Electives 19-21</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Minimum Requirements for Graduation 120</p>
<p class="title-1">IPM and Pest Science Option</p>
<p class="basic-text">The IPM and Pest Science Option is designed for students considering careers in agriculture, agribusiness, consulting (agricultural, environmental, public health, urban), extension, state and federal government agencies (e.g., APHIS, EPA, USDA, and state departments of agriculture), horticulture, the military, food processing, and pest control. Examples of areas of focus include agronomic and horticultural pests, or urban pests. This option is also suitable as preparation for graduate studies leading to academic or research careers in applied entomology.</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-1">Departmental Courses 19-21</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 300 Toxins in the Environment (BIOS 300/NRES 300) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 401 Insect Physiology 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 406 Insect Ecology (BIOS 406) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 412 Entomology &amp; Pest Management 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select three of the following courses:</span> 7-9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 109 Beekeeping (2 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 403 Management of Horticultural Crop Insects (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 308 Management of Field Crop Insects (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 409 Insect Control by Host-Plant Resistance (2 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 415 Medical Entomology (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Other Courses 23</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRI 115 Biotechnology: Food, Health, &amp; Environment (LIFE 115) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRO 153 Soil Resources (HORT 153/SOIL 153) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRO 426 Invasive Plants (HORT 426/NRES 426) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">NRES 211 Introduction to Conservation Biology 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">NRES 220 &amp; NRES 222 Principles of Ecology &amp; Lab (BIOS 220 &amp; BIOS 222) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PLPT 270 Biological Invaders (AGRO 270/HORT 270/NRES 270) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PLPT 369 Introductory Plant Pathology (BIOS 369) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Option Requirements 42-44</p>
<p class="title-1">Science Option</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Insect Science Option is designed for students interested in careers focusing on the basic biology of insects and other arthropods. This option is suitable for students considering any career involving entomology (e.g., academia, research, medicine, forensics, environmental quality, conservation biology, or health-related fields), but is especially appropriate preparation for entry into professional programs such as veterinary and medical schools and with many graduate school disciplines. Students pursuing this option must choose LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L and BIOS 206 in meeting the entomology degree requirements in life sciences. Completion of the Insect Science Option will also fulfill requirements for a minor in biological sciences.</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-1">Departmental Courses 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 401 Insect Physiology 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 406 Insect Ecology (BIOS 406) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Entomology Elective 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Select from any ENTO course beyond those meeting other major requirements.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Other Courses 30-31</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRI 115 Biotechnology: Food, Health &amp; Environment (LIFE 115) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L Fundamentals of Biology II &amp; Lab 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 205 Genetics, Molecular &amp; Cellular Biology Lab 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 207 Ecology &amp; Evolution 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Biological Sciences Electives 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Select from any BIOS/LIFE course beyond those meeting other major requirements.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOC 321 &amp; BIOC 321L Elements of Biochemistry &amp; Lab 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 251 Organic Chemistry I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 141 Elementary General Physics I (5 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> PHYS 151 Elements of Physics (4 cr) 4-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Option Requirements 42-43</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Students interested in graduate or professional schools in biology, medicine, or veterinary science should take:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 106 Calculus I 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">An additional PHYS course and lab 5</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="title-1">Insect Science Minor</p>
<p class="basic-text">A minor in insect science will consist of at least 18 credit hours of entomology including at least 6 hours at the 300 level or above. BIOS 381 Invertebrate Zoology, and up to 3 hours of ENTO 496 Independent Study in Entomology, may be counted towards the minor requirements. The course of study leading to a minor in insect science must be developed in consultation with, and be approved by, an adviser in the Department of Entomology. Advisers for the minor are assigned by the Head of the Department of Entomology.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>