<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>International Business 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="international-business-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">International Business</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Business Administration</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> International Business</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 hours for degree (36 hours for the major)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.5 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes-for CBA students only</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> D'vee Buss</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in international business study the business practices of other nations and learn how international trade laws affect the world economy. A background in international business will help students become a better member of the management team of any corporation. From banks to manufacturing firms, an increasing number of industries need professionals who understand the world’s business environment. Import and export firms, agricultural commodities firms, and government and non-government agencies may specifically seek international expertise. It is suggested that students begin thinking about where they want to study abroad and their language and culture courses during the freshman year. Upper-level course work and education abroad experience will be done sometime in the junior or senior year.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Because the nature of the major requires studying abroad and careful selection of course work to complement and count for appropriate requirements, students are strongly encouraged to consult with their adviser or a staff member in the Undergraduate Programs Office.</p>
<p class="basic-text">In order for students to be successful in international business after graduation, they should plan to do the following as part of their university experience:</p>
<ul>
<li>Internships related to international business</li>
<li>Involvement with international student groups</li>
<li>Language study</li>
<li>Courses that will provide them with greater awareness and knowledge of global issues</li>
<li>Education abroad experiences</li>
</ul>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Core Requirements</p>
<ul>
<li>In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 36 hours of course work for the major.</li>
<li>Course work for the major must be selected from the approved list of courses.</li>
<li>As noted in the College Degree Requirements section, all course work for the major must be taken for a grade.</li>
<li>No course work for this major may be double counted with any other business major or minor.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M)</p>
<p class="basic-text">Requirements for students interested in pursuing the bachelor of science degree with a major in international business will complete 36 hours of course work in three components consisting of:</p>
<p class="title-3">(1) General Business Requirements (24 hours)</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students interested in pursuing the bachelor of science degree with a major in International Business are to complete 24 hours of 300/400-level business course work for the Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M) to be selected from course work offered by:</p>
<ul>
<li>Accounting</li>
<li>Economics</li>
<li>Finance</li>
<li>Management or Supply Chain Management</li>
<li>Marketing</li>
</ul>
<p class="header-paragraph">As part of the 24 hour requirement:</p>
<ul>
<li>Course work must be from the 300/400-level with the 300-level course work selected from the following approved list.</li>
<li>A MINIMUM of 3 hours from each of five departments must be represented.</li>
<li>A MINIMUM of 6 hours from each of three departments must be represented.</li>
<li>A MINIMUM of 9 hours must be taken at the 400 level.</li>
<li>Departmental 399/499s <span class="basic-text-ital">(unless an honors thesis)</span> may NOT be used toward the major.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-3">Accounting:</p>
<p class="list">ACCT 308 Managerial Accounting</p>
<p class="list">ACCT 309 Accounting Systems</p>
<p class="list">ACCT 313 Intermediate Accounting I</p>
<p class="list">ACCT 314 Intermediate Accounting II</p>
<p class="list">Any 400-level accounting course work</p>
<p class="title-3">Economics:</p>
<p class="list">ECON 311 Intermediate Macroeconomics</p>
<p class="list">ECON 312 Intermediate Microeconomics</p>
<p class="list">ECON 321 Introduction to International Economics</p>
<p class="list">Any 400-level economics course work</p>
<p class="title-3">Finance:</p>
<p class="list">FINA 338 Principles of Corporate Risk Management</p>
<p class="list">FINA 363 Investment Principles</p>
<p class="list">FINA 365/ECON 365 Financial Institutions &amp; Markets</p>
<p class="list">Any 400-level finance or actuarial science course work</p>
<p class="title-3">Management:</p>
<p class="list">MNGT 311 Leadership, Communication, &amp; Teams</p>
<p class="list">MNGT 321/ENTR 321 Entrepreneurship &amp; Innovation in Organizations</p>
<p class="list">MNGT 361 Human Resource Management</p>
<p class="list">SCMS 335 Supply Chain Decision Making Models</p>
<p class="list">Any 400-level management or supply chain management course work</p>
<p class="title-3">Marketing:</p>
<p class="list">MRKT 346/SCMS 346 Marketing Channels Management</p>
<p class="list">MRKT 347 Marketing Communication Strategy</p>
<p class="list">MRKT 345 Market Research</p>
<p class="list">MRKT 350 Marketing Information Systems</p>
<p class="list">MRKT 355 Marketing Metrics</p>
<p class="list">Any 400-level marketing course work</p>
<p class="title-3">Additional Restrictions:</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who earn BSAD 491 (6 hrs) from the Senshu (Japan) study abroad program may substitute 6 hours of BSAD 491 toward the second course in two of the three required departments.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who earn BSAD 491 (3 hrs) from the CBA China study abroad program may substitute 3 hours of BSAD 491 toward the second course in one of the three required departments.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who earn BSAD 491 (3 hrs) from the CBA CIMBA (Italy) study abroad program may substitute 3 hours of BSAD 491 toward the second course in one of the three required departments.</p>
<p class="title-2">(2) International Business course work (12 hours)</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to the 24 hours identified above, students will complete 12 hours of international business course work. These 12 hours must come from at least two departments. All courses for the 12 hours must be from the Approved International Business Course List found in this Bulletin.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The 12 hours of ‘international business course work’ are SEPARATE from the 24 hours of 300/400-level general business course work (listed above) and these hours <span class="basic-text-bold">cannot</span> be ‘double counted’ between both components. However, there can be double counting between the NBR 6/ACE 9 requirement where, if taken, MNGT 414 or ECON 321 may be used both in the ACE requirement and for the major.</p>
<p class="title-3">Approved International Business Course List (12 hours):</p>
<p class="list">BSAD 491 International Studies in Business &amp; Economics (1-15 hrs) <span class="list-ital">(This is a credit option for students studying abroad for course work with no direct business equivalency. Pre-approval for credit required.) </span></p>
<p class="list">ECON 321 Introduction to International Economics <span class="list-ital">(If not completed at this point, MNGT 414 may double count for ACE 9.)</span></p>
<p class="list">ECON 421 International Trade <span class="list-ital">(credit cannot be earned in both ECON 421 and AECN 420)</span></p>
<p class="list">ECON 422 International Finance</p>
<p class="list">ECON 423 Economics of the Less Developed Countries</p>
<p class="list">ECON 466 &amp; ECON 467 Pro-Seminar in International Relations I &amp; II <span class="list-ital">(Credit option for students participating in the Nebraska at Oxford Program.)</span></p>
<p class="list">FINA 450 International Financial Management</p>
<p class="list">MNGT 414 Leadership in a Global Context<span class="list-ital"> (If not completed at this point, MNGT 414 may double count for ACE 9.) </span></p>
<p class="list">MNGT 459/SCMS 459 Global Information Systems</p>
<p class="list">MRKT 453 International Marketing <span class="list-ital">(prerequisite requires completion of 6 hours of MRKT course work)</span></p>
<p class="list">SCMS 439 Global Sourcing &amp; Distribution</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Although the following courses may also be used to fulfill requirements in the international business major/minor/IBCR, students should be aware that they are not necessarily offered on a consistent basis. <span class="list-ital">(None of these courses were offered in the 2011-12 AY.)</span></p>
<p class="list">ECON 322 Intro to Development Economics <span class="list-ital">(credit cannot be earned in both ECON 322 and AECN 367) </span></p>
<p class="list">ECON 323 The Economic Development of Latin America</p>
<p class="list">ECON 388 Comparative Economic Systems</p>
<p class="list">ECON 440 Regional Development</p>
<p class="list">ECON 487 Economies in Transition</p>
<p class="title-2">(3) Education Abroad</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to completing course work required for the major, students majoring in International Business are also required to participate in a UNL sponsored education abroad experience.</p>
<ul>
<li>This must be completed while in college.</li>
<li>A MINIMUM of 3 hours of UNL sponsored or approved education abroad credit must be achieved as part of the education abroad experience. If approved, these hours may fit towards the major, minors or other degree requirements.</li>
<li>International students must study in a country other than the U.S. or their home country.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-2">(4) Additional Studies (optional)</p>
<p class="basic-text">While not required, students majoring in international business who wish to seek opportunities for employment abroad should develop a plan early to potentially include the following:</p>
<p class="list">a. Develop a plan of study beginning the freshman year to include Global Studies/International course work as part of the ACE (Achievement Center Education) requirements and other degree program requirements where appropriate;</p>
<p class="list">b. Develop fluency in a minimum of one language other than their native language;</p>
<p class="list">c. International-related internships, international-related volunteer experiences; language partner relationships;</p>
<p class="list">d. Additional education abroad experiences;</p>
<p class="list">e. Conduct research and develop connections with internationally-focused businesses.</p>
<p class="title-1">Minor Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">While not required, students should consider a minor in language and/or consider options in other departments related to the country of interest (i.e., history, political science, global studies, Asian studies, ethnic or European studies, Latin American studies, etc.)</p>
<ul>
<li>Refer to Arts and Science minors for options and requirements which may compliment the geographical area and/or language of interest.</li>
<li>Those interested in pursuing a language minor may be able to double count NBR 4–Ace 5. Students will need to compare the requirements for their minor with the ACE course list to determine applicability.</li>
<li>In any of these instances, credit hours count only ONCE; student still needs 120 hours for the degree.</li>
<li>Be sure to distinguish differences between Plan A &amp; Plan B minors <span class="basic-text-ital">(as Plan A requires completion of only ONE minor, while Plan B requires completion of an additional minor)</span>.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-1">Electives</p>
<p class="basic-text">See College Degree Requirements–Electives for additional options/restrictions regarding elective credit for the degree.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">Enrollment in most upper-level business courses usually requires completion of an introductory course in that major area as well as other prerequisites. Refer to course descriptions EARLY in the program to plan for completion of specific course prerequisites.</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Same as College grade rules.</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">Same as College Pass/No Pass limits.</p>
<p class="title-2">GPA Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">Same as College GPA requirements.</p>
<p class="title-1">Course Level Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">Enrollment in language courses above the 101 level requires appropriate placement on the Modern Language Placement exam.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="title-1">International Business Minor</p>
<ul>
<li>The international business minor is available to College of Business Administration students only. The college requires that 75% of the course work for the minor will be completed at UNL.</li>
<li>Course work used for this minor cannot be double counted toward business core foundation (BCF) intermediate (BCI) or advanced-major (BCA-M, BCA-A) degree requirements, for another major, nor any other business minor requirements.</li>
<li>ECON 321 and MNGT 414 can count for minor AND NBR 6–ACE 9 “IF” not being used for another major.</li>
<li>All course work for the minor must be taken for a grade.</li>
<li>Departmental 399/499’s may NOT be used toward the minor.</li>
<li>To fulfill the requirements for an international business minor, students must complete 12 hours from those courses listed under the Approved Business Courses.</li>
<li>In addition to completing course work required for the minor, students are required to participate in a UNL sponsored study abroad experience or a study abroad experience resulting in UNL transfer credit.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-2">Approved International Business Course List (12 hours):</p>
<p class="list">BSAD 491 International Studies in Business &amp; Economics (1-15 hrs) <span class="list-ital">(This is a credit option for students studying abroad for course work with no direct business equivalency. Pre-approval for credit required.)</span></p>
<p class="list">ECON 321 Introduction to International Economics <span class="list-ital">(If not completed at this point, MNGT 414 may double count for ACE 9.)</span></p>
<p class="list">ECON 421 International Trade <span class="list-ital">(credit cannot be earned in both ECON 421 and AECN 420)</span></p>
<p class="list">ECON 422 International Finance</p>
<p class="list">ECON 423 Economics of the Less Developed Countries</p>
<p class="list">ECON 466 &amp; ECON 467 Pro-Seminar in International Relations I &amp; II <span class="list-ital">(Credit option for students participating in the Nebraska at Oxford Program.)</span></p>
<p class="list">FINA 450 International Financial Management</p>
<p class="list">MNGT 414 Leadership in a Global Context <span class="list-ital">(If not completed at this point, MNGT 414 may double count for the major and ACE 9.)</span></p>
<p class="list">MNGT 459/SCMS 459 Global Information Systems</p>
<p class="list">SCMS 439 Global Sourcing &amp; Distribution</p>
<p class="list">MRKT 453 International Marketing <span class="list-ital">(prerequisite requires completion of 6 hours of MRKT course work)</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Although the following courses may also be used to fulfill requirements in the international business major/minor/IBCR, students should be aware that they are not necessarily offered on a consistent basis.</p>
<p class="list">ECON 322 Introduction to Development Economics <span class="list-ital">(credit cannot be earned in both ECON 322 and AECN 367)</span></p>
<p class="list">ECON 323 The Economic Development of Latin America</p>
<p class="list">ECON 388 Comparative Economics Systems</p>
<p class="list">ECON 440 Regional Development</p>
<p class="list">ECON 487 Economies in Transition</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>
<p class="title-1">Major/Department Admission</p>
<p class="basic-text">Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University Admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>