<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Interior Design.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="interior-design">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Interior Design</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Architecture</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Interior Design</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Design</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span></p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISERS:</span> Betsy Gabb (pre-interior design); Assigned Faculty (interior design)</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Director: Betsy Gabb,</span> 232 Architecture Hall</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Gabb, Hinchman</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Allisma, Ellsworth-Bahe</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chief Advisers:</span> Pre-Interior Design: Betsy Gabb (bgabb1@unl.edu); Interior Design: Assigned Faculty</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The College of Architecture also administers the interior design program. The four-year interior design program consists of a one-year pre-interior design program and a subsequent three-year bachelor of science in design (BSD-Interior Design) major. After completing a one-year curriculum in pre-interior design, students apply for admission into the College of Architecture’s interior design program. This interior design program is fully accredited by the Council Interior Design Accreditation (CIDA). The interior design program also offers a post-professional MS degree through the Graduate College. The graduate degree is also available through On-line and Distance Education.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This four-year, undergraduate program is for the student interested in becoming a professional interior designer. The professional interior designer is a person qualified by education, experience, and examination to 1) identify, research, and creatively explore issues related to the quality of the interior environment; 2) perform design services in interior spaces, including programming, design analysis, space planning and aesthetics, using specialized knowledge of interior construction, building systems and components, building codes, equipment materials and furnishings; and 3) prepare drawings and documents describing the design of interior spaces in order to enhance and protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Upon successful completion of one year of pre-interior design studies and admission to the interior design program, students in the interior design program may enroll in the curriculum which leads to a bachelor of science in design (BSD-Interior Design) degree.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Common First Year</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Common First Year engages and prepares students for exciting futures in all design fields within the College of Architecture. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Common First Year curriculum offered by the College of Architecture, introduces students to design through courses in three areas: Technique (drawing and computer applications), Design Discipline (an introduction to the related design disciplines and design history), and Design Practice (design Thinking and design Making). In addition, students take University courses in math, English, communications, and a general education elective. dThink and dMake are sequential hands-on courses where students learn to work in teams to address problems and promote innovation. At the same time, they learn the foundational skills in composition, craft, presentation, and idea generation necessary for all design fields. </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>At the end of the Common First Year, students have gained an understanding of the broad range of design and are eligible to apply to any of the design programs in the College—Architecture, Landscape Architecture, Interior Design, and Industrial Design (pending program approval).</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSION</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Admission to the Bachelor of Science in Design Program–Interior Design</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Minimum Entrance Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>To be considered for admission to the interior design program, applicants must:</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. Be enrolled in the College of Architecture</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Be in good scholastic standing</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. Have completed the appropriate 1st year pre-architecture, pre-interior design, or pre-landscape architecture program of study</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Second Year Admission Process</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. An application for admission may be completed by filling out the online application. The program receives applications once a year on March 1.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Applicants must submit a portfolio conforming to the defined criteria for the program applied for by the date posted at the completion of the spring semester.</p>
			<p class="list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. Any applicant who has previously applied for admission and has not been accepted or who fails to enroll in the professional program in architecture or the interior design program after an acceptance must reapply in the regular manner. Students may apply for admission to the interior design program only three times.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Evaluation</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The faculty of the interior design program will carefully evaluate the applications for admission. The committee considers three elements in their evaluation: cumulative grade point average, a weighted grade point average, and the portfolio of student work. The weighted grade point average gives additional value to the applicant’s achievement in the required DSGN prefix course or transfer equivalents in the pre-professional curriculum.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Selection</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Admission to the interior design program will be awarded to applicants who show the greatest professional potential and have demonstrated scholastic achievement. The faculty reserves the right to not fill all available spaces in the professional program in the interior design program if determined that the remaining applicants have not performed at an acceptable level.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Pre-Interior Design Curriculum</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The pre-interior design curriculum begins with a one-year design core. This core introduces students to the fundamentals of design thinking and design making. The pre-interior design program is followed by three years of interior design instruction leading to a bachelor of science in design–interior design. The interior design program is fully accredited by the Council for Interior Design Accreditation (CIDA).</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The College of Architecture, and all four years of the interior design program, are located in Lincoln. However, we do offer the option to do the first year of the program at UNO. After successfully completing the prescribed pre-interior design program at UNO, students may transfer to UNL and apply for admission to the second year of study in the professional program of the Interior Design Program. For more information about courses at UNO, or transferring from UNO to UNL, please contact Dr. Betsy Gabb at 402-472-9245 (UNL) or Leslie Brehm at 402-472-4065.</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>PRE-INTERIOR DESIGN: Common First Year, First Semester</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>DSGN 101 Introduction to Design 2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>DSGN 110 Design Thinking <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 7)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>DSGN 120 Design Drawing 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ENGL 150 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ENGL 151 Composition Elective <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 1)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 6 Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 14</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>PRE-INTERIOR DESIGN: Common First Year, Second Semester</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>DSGN 140 History of Design 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>DSGN 111 Design Making 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>DSGN 123 Computer Applications in Design 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 104 Calculus for Managerial &amp; Social Sciences 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Communication Elective: COMM 109 Fundamentals of Human Communication <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 16</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>INTERIOR DESIGN: Second Year, First Semester</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ARCH 241 Architecture History &amp; Theory II 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES 210 Design Studio I 5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES 300 Systems I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES XXX <span class="requirement-ital">(new course to be developed)</span> Systems II 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 14</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>INTERIOR DESIGN: Second Year, Second Semester</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>AHIS 101 Introduction to Art History &amp; Criticism I 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES 211 Design Studio II 5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES 334 Building Environmental Technical Systems III 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Behavior Elective: ARCH 456 Behavioral &amp; Social Factors in Environmental Design 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Natural Sciences Elective <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 4)</span> 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 17</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>INTERIOR DESIGN: Third Year, First Semester</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES 301 Material Applications 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES 350 Interior Design Studio III 5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES 433 Interior Construction Documents 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES 445 History of Interiors &amp; Designed Objects <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 5 or 7)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 14</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>INTERIOR DESIGN: Third Year, Second Semester</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES XXX <span class="requirement-ital">(new course to be developed)</span> Evidence Based Design 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES 351 Interior Design Studio IV 5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Professional Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 8 Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 17</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>INTERIOR DESIGN: Summer Session (Between 3rd &amp; 4th Year)</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES 491 Selected Topics in Interior Design: Interior Design Internship 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>INTERIOR DESIGN: Fourth Year, First Semester</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES 318 Professional Practices for Interior Design 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES 450 Interior Design Studio V 5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES XXX <span class="requirement-ital">(new course to be developed)</span> Community Engagement 2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Professional Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 13</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>INTERIOR DESIGN: Fourth Year, Second Semester</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES 451 Interior Design Studio VI 6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Professional Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 9 Elective 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total 12</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total for Graduation 120</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS<span class="no-style-override-1"> </span></p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Minimum Grades</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students must earn at least a C (2.0) in all courses with an ARCH, DSGN, IDES, or LARC prefix to earn credit toward their degree. Students will be required to retake all core required courses with a grade of C- or below, but will not be required to repeat courses that were taken as electives.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>None of the required classes offered in the professional program are offered Pass/No Pass, but a maximum of 12 Pass/No Pass credit hours of humanities, social sciences, or open electives may be taken from departments outside the College of Architecture.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Courses taken outside the architecture, landscape architecture, or interior design programs to fulfill the upper level outside elective requirement at the 800 level or 900 level, with or without a 400-level counterpart, in a minor, collateral, or supporting area of work, can be taken on a Pass/No Pass basis.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>GPA Requirements</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Pre-Professional Program, Architecture, Landscape Architecture and Interior Design</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students in the first year are required to maintain both a semester and cumulative grade point average at or above 2.0. The standard rises to a grade point average of 2.6 in the second year. Admission into the third year of both programs requires a cumulative grade point average of 2.6. The College places students who fail to meet these standards on academic probation.</p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Third and Fourth Year, Interior Design and Landscape Architecture</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Students in the third and fourth year of the BSD program are required to maintain a 2.6 cumulative grade point average to remain in good academic standing. The program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Product Design Minor</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Director and Chief Adviser: Betsy Gabb</span>, 232 Architecture Hall</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Faculty:</span> Allisma, Ellsworth-Bahe, Hinchman, Saroka, Day (architecture), Ford (architecture), Hardy (architecture), Hemsath (architecture), Hoistad (architecture), Kuska (architecture), D. Jones (engineering), Pinnell (art)</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Product Design </p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The common core of courses shared by students in the College of Architecture (interior design, architecture, landscape architecture) provides students with an understanding of the design and fabrication process at a range of scales. The minor in product design provides an opportunity to explore design at a smaller, yet related scale. It allows students to develop academic strengths that will prepare them for advanced study and careers in the design of objects that people interact with on a personal level, of a size and function related to human dimensions. This includes furniture and a variety of manufactured objects.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The minor is available to students in interior design, architecture, landscape architecture, and art.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Requirements for the Minor (18 credits)</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>A minimum of 12 hours of course work to include the following:</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>GRPH 221 Building Graphic Design 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES 301 Material Applications 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES 417 Product Design 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MECH 370 Manufacturing Methods &amp; Processes 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>6 credits of additional course work to be selected from:</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ARCH 418 Fabrication &amp; Construction Team 1-6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ARCH 516 Modern Craft 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ARCH 526 Digital Fabrication 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES 482 Advanced Color Theory 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES 484 Material Culture: The Social Life of Things 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES 491 Selected Topics in Interior Design: Branding 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>IDES Signage &amp; Wayfinding <span class="requirement-ital">(course to be developed)</span> 3</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
