<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Mathematics.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="mathematics">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Mathematics</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Mathematics</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Lori Mueller</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Judy Walker,</span> 206 Avery Hall</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Vice Chair:</span> Alan Donsig</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Avalos, Avramov, Deng, Dunbar, Harbourne, Hermiller, Iyengar, Lewis, Logan, Manderscheid, Marley, Meakin, Orr, Peterson, Pitts, Radcliffe, Rammaha, Rebarber, J. Walker, M. Walker, Woodward</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Brittenham, Cohn, Donsig, Foss, Hartke, Ledder, Radu, Tenhumberg</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Curto, Itskov, Jin, Kelley, Toundykov, Zhang</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor of Practice:</span> Hines</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A strong mathematics background is essential to an increasing variety of careers. The Department of Mathematics encourages students to select a coherent body of courses in mathematics and in other disciplines that are consistent with their academic and career goals.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Department of Mathematics offers four options for the major in mathematics. Each student majoring in mathematics should select an option that meets their academic and career needs by completing a Program Declaration form in consultation with the Department’s Chief Undergraduate Adviser. Ideally, this should be done prior to completing two mathematics courses beyond the calculus sequence. As appropriate, students can change their Program Declaration to select a different option or modify the program of study subject to the approval of the Chief Undergraduate Adviser.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span> Students with previous credit in any calculus course may not register for or earn credit in MATH 100A, MATH 101, MATH 102, MATH 103, or MATH 104, without first receiving special written permission from the Chief Undergraduate Adviser.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work. </span>The advanced degrees of master of arts, master of science, master of arts (or science) for teachers, and doctor of philosophy are offered by the Department of Mathematics. For details of these programs, see the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Bachelor of Arts</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The BA degree is ideal for the student who wants to combine a mathematics major with another major or several minors in the humanities or the social sciences or for the student dual matriculating with another college.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Core Requirements</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. A complete calculus sequence: MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 208 or MATH 108H, MATH 109H, or equivalent; </p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Twenty-one hours (seven courses) selected from the Advanced Mathematics Course List.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Specific Major Requirements for the BA</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>The seven mathematics courses must be distributed as follows:</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 221 or MATH 380/STAT 380</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 314, MATH 310, and MATH 325</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>At least two advanced mathematics courses at the 400-level</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>One more advanced mathematics course</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> Students may substitute a more advanced course in the same area for a required mathematics course. Interested students should visit with the Chief Undergraduate Adviser for more information about this option.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating its programs, all majors should plan to participate in an exit interview during their last semester before graduation. Please make arrangements with the Chief Undergraduate Adviser.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Bachelor of Science</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Core Requirements</p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>1. A complete calculus sequence: MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 208 or MATH 108H, MATH 109H, or equivalent; </p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>2. Twenty-four hours (eight courses) selected from the Advanced Mathematics Course List; </p>
			<p class="numbered-list" xml:lang='en-us'>3. An approved Option Declaration form.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Specific Major Requirements for the BS</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating its programs, all majors should plan to participate in an exit interview during their last semester before graduation. Please make arrangements with the Chief Undergraduate Adviser.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Option C (Concentration)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This option is ideal for students wishing to combine a strong mathematics education with a coherent body of course work in another discipline. Specific requirements above calculus are as follows:</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>The 8 required mathematics courses must be distributed as follows:</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 314</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Either MATH 221 or MATH 380/STAT 380</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 310 and MATH 325</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>At least two more advanced mathematics courses at the 400 level</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Two additional advanced mathematics courses</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Any Plan A minor or an approved 18-hour concentration outside of mathematics.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> One 400-level course in the area of the concentration may be substituted for one of the required two additional advanced mathematics courses, provided the course makes significant use of advanced mathematics. The Chief Undergraduate Adviser must approve the substitution.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Option E (Education)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This option is ideal for students interested in teaching mathematics at the secondary level. Specific requirements above calculus are as follows:</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 310, MATH 314, MATH 325, MATH 350, MATH 380/STAT 380, MATH 405, MATH 407, MATH 408</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>One additional advanced mathematics course</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>An education minor or an approved 18-hour concentration in education</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Option R (Research Experience)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This option is recommended for students interested in independent work and for students planning to pursue graduate work in mathematics. Specific requirements above calculus are as follows:</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>The eight required mathematics courses must be distributed as follows:</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 221, MATH 310, MATH 314, and MATH 325</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>At least three advanced mathematics courses at the 400 level</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>One more advanced mathematics course</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>An approved undergraduate research experience. A variety of options exist for meeting this requirement. They include 1) research experiences such as an REU or UCARE that leads to a project paper, 2) a senior honors thesis or a thesis approved for graduation with distinction, or 3) a grade of P in MATH 496, Undergraduate Research Seminar (this course would be in addition to the advanced mathematics courses requirement above). To satisfy this requirement, students must file with the Chief Undergraduate Adviser a) a “Research Experience” contract that is approved by the Chief Undergraduate Adviser and b) the thesis, research papers, or projects as required by the contract. Visit with the Chief Undergraduate Adviser for more information.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Option S (Statistics)</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>This option is recommended for students interested in a mathematics major and a strong body of course work in statistics. Specific requirements above calculus are as follows:</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'>The eight required mathematics courses must be distributed as follows:</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 314 and MATH 380/STAT 380</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 310 and MATH 325</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>At least two advanced mathematics courses at the 400 level.</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Two more advanced mathematics courses</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>Nine hours of statistics numbered 300 or above in addition to MATH 380/STAT 380</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">NOTE:</span> For this option, one 400-level statistics course may be substituted for one of the required two additional advanced mathematics courses.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> Under any option, students may substitute a more advanced course in the same area for a required mathematics course. Interested students should visit with the Chief Undergraduate Adviser for more information about this option.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The prerequisites listed for a course may be replaced by equivalent preparation. One prerequisite for all Advanced Mathematics courses is successful completion of MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 208 (or MATH 108H, MATH 109H) or equivalent. Additional specific prerequisites, if any, are listed with the course. Two courses past calculus are required prerequisites for all 400-level mathematics courses. All topics, independent study, reading courses and seminars require permission of the instructor before registering; and these courses do not count toward the major requirements unless approved by the Chief Undergraduate Adviser.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>For majors or minors, no calculus course can be taken Pass/No Pass. (Students in violation of this should consult with the Chief Undergraduate Adviser for possible alternative requirements.) For majors or minors, at most 3 hours of the advanced courses may be taken as Pass/No Pass.</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>GPA Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>A minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5 in those courses used to satisfy the Advanced Mathematics course requirements. </p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A.</span> A complete calculus sequence plus two advanced mathematics courses.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan B.</span> A complete calculus sequence.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Pass/No Pass.</span> For majors or minors, no calculus course can be taken Pass/No Pass. (Students in violation of this should consult with the Chief Undergraduate Adviser for possible alternative requirements.) For majors or minors, at most 3 hours of the advanced courses may be taken as Pass/No Pass.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
