<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Mechanical Engineering 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="mechanical-engineering-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Mechanical Engineering</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Mechanical Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 128</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Jeffrey Shield</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Jeffrey E. Shield</span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Chair for Research and Graduate Studies: </span>Mehrdad Negahban</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Barton, Bishu, Bobaru, Cole, Dzenis, Farritor, Feng, Gogos, Hallbeck, Nastasi, Negahban, Rajurkar, Reid, Shield, To, Turner, Wei, Yang</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice:</span> Stelling</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Baesu, Gu, Nelson, Szydlowski, Tan, Williams, Zhang</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Huang, Lim, Ndao, Ryu, Terry</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturers:</span> Coen-Brown, Dick, Lehman</p>
<p class="basic-text">Mechanical engineering is a broad field of study that significantly impacts many technologies, including those that expand our energy resources and improve medical care. Mechanical engineers are concerned with all forms of energy conversion and transmission; the flow of fluids and heat; the development, design, manufacturing, and operation of machinery and equipment; material structure and properties; solid and applied mechanics; and transportation processes. The course of study is designed to give the student fundamental preparation to enter the fields of research, design, operation, production, sales, or management.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The mechanical engineering curriculum is structured so that students are well prepared in the fundamental areas of solid mechanics, thermal-fluid sciences, systems and design engineering, and materials engineering. Students can develop an emphasis area of study by concentrating elective courses in specific interdisciplinary areas such as aerospace engineering, automotive engineering, robotics, biomedical engineering, computational methods, manufacturing, nanotechnology and others depending upon the technical courses available and the interest of the student.</p>
<p class="title-2">Mission and Objectives</p>
<p class="title-3">Mission Statement</p>
<p class="basic-text">The mission of the Department of Mechanical and Materials Engineering at the University of Nebraska is to impact society locally and globally through our educational programs, research, and service, developing knowledge and sharing our expertise in the best traditions of land-grant universities. We strive for excellence in teaching and learning at both the undergraduate and graduate levels, seek to develop novel educational opportunities, grow our public and private support for research and education, and expand our scholarship, outreach and service.</p>
<p class="title-3"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Educational Objectives</span></p>
<p class="basic-text">Within a few years of graduation, our mechanical engineering graduates are expected to:</p>
<p class="list">1. have started successful careers based on their education or have completed a professional degree or a graduate degree in engineering or related field;</p>
<p class="list">2. have begun life-long learning and development in order to remain current in their knowledge and skills and to advance in their careers; and</p>
<p class="list">3. have established a record of professionalism, leadership, respect and integrity in working to serve humanity and to use resources responsibly.</p>
<p class="title-3">Student Outcomes</p>
<p class="basic-text">The educational program leading to the BS in mechanical engineering ensures that students attain the following outcomes:</p>
<ul>
<li>an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering;</li>
<li>an ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data;</li>
<li>an ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability;</li>
<li>an ability to function on multidisciplinary teams;</li>
<li>an ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems;</li>
<li>an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility;</li>
<li>an ability to communicate effectively;</li>
<li>the broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context;</li>
<li>a recognition of the need for, and an ability to engage in, life-long learning;</li>
<li>a knowledge of contemporary issues;</li>
<li>an ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering practice.</li>
</ul>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Requirements for the Degree (Lincoln campus)</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">First Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 111 Chemistry for Engineering &amp; Technology 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">CHEM 109 and 110 may be substituted for CHEM 111. Only 4 credits count toward graduation.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 10 Freshman Engineering Seminar 0</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 106 Calculus I 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Electives 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose courses from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Second Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CSCE 155N Computer Science I: Engineering and Science Focus 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 107 Calculus II 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 130 Introduction to CAD 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 221 General Physics Lab I 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Or, instead, PHYS 222 General Physics Lab II (1 cr) may be taken in the Third Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Third Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 206/CONE 206 Engineering Economics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 208 Calculus III 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 223 Engineering Statics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 17</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fourth Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATL 360 Elements of Materials Science 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 200 Engineering Thermodynamics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 325 Mechanics of Elastic Bodies 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 373 Engineering Dynamics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fifth Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ELEC 211 Elements of Electrical Engineering I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ELEC 231 Electrical Engineering Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 314 Linear Algebra 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 300 Thermal Systems &amp; Design 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 342 Kinematics &amp; Dynamics of Machinery 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Communication Studies Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course from the following: COMM 210, COMM 283, or COMM 286 (ACE 2).</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Sixth Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 321 Engineering Statistics &amp; Data Analysis <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> STAT 380/MATH 380 Statistics &amp; Applications 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 310 Fluid Mechanics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 343 Elements of Machine Design 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 350 Introduction to Dynamics &amp; Control of Engineering Systems 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 380 Mechanical Engineering Measurements 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Seventh Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 370 Manufacturing Methods &amp; Processes 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 420 Heat Transfer 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 446 Mechanical Engineering Design I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">The capstone design sequence must be taken in the order shown in the curriculum and should be taken in the last two semesters of the program (MECH 446 and MECH 447).</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 488 Kinematics &amp; Machine Design Lab 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Mechanical Engineering Technical Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Design and technical electives must be chosen from a list of approved 400-level mechanical engineering elective courses. Consult adviser for suggested choices.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 17</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Eighth Semester Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 400 Professional Ethics &amp; Social Responsibilities 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 447 Mechanical Engineering Design II 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 487 Thermal Fluids Lab 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Mechanical Engineering Design Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Design and technical electives must be chosen from a list of approved 400-level mechanical engineering elective courses. Consult adviser for suggested choices.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Senior Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Senior electives may be either another mechanical engineering technical elective, another mechanical engineering design elective, or, with prior written approval of your adviser, a 300 or higher level engineering, science, or math course.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Electives 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose courses from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 17</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Credit Hours Required 128</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>
<p class="title-2">Admittance to Degree Program</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are expected to meet minimum college entrance requirements. After being admitted to the college as pre-mechanical engineering students, students wishing to pursue a degree in mechanical engineering must further be admitted to the degree program. Students who have completed 43 credit hours applicable to their mechanical engineering degree are considered for formal admission to the mechanical engineering degree program. Typically, this occurs the semester the student is enrolled in MECH 200 or MATL 360. Those exceeding 61 credit hours must receive formal admission to the mechanical engineering degree program if they are to continue to take mechanical engineering courses. Transfer students must have at least 12 credit hours of course work from the University of Nebraska–Lincoln on record before an application will be considered.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The requirements for admission to the degree program are a major GPA of 2.7 (that is, not counting elective courses), no more than four withdrawals and no more than three repeated courses. Those who are not admitted to the degree program the first time are advised of the outcome and are automatically reviewed again at the end of that semester. If after two reviews a student is not admitted to the degree program, the student is advised of other majors, in engineering or elsewhere, in which they may be likely to find success.</p>
<p class="title-2">Hands-on Opportunities</p>
<p class="basic-text">One major focus of the Department is to provide students with many hands-on opportunities both within the curriculum (through formal laboratory courses) and through extracurricular activities. Brief descriptions of some of the laboratories in the department are given below.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Materials Laboratory</span> is designed to study the development of microstructures during processing, and to correlate the properties of materials with the observed structures. Undergraduates utilize arc melting facilities for solidification processing and alloy formation, rolling mills for deformation processing, and a variety of furnaces for thermal treatments. Characterization facilities include x-ray diffractometry and optical microscopy, while property measurements are completed using hardness testing (including microhardness), tensile testing, and impact testing facilities. Other facilities associated with the materials laboratory include rapid solidification processing facilities and electron microscopy facilities.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Measurements Laboratory</span> is associated with the required MECH 380 Mechanical Engineering Measurements course which includes two hours of lecture and two hours of laboratory work each week. The course covers the fundamentals of mechanical engineering measurements including data analysis (statistics, graphing, spectral analysis), signal conditioning, data readout, and the measurement of length/displacement, rate of rotation, stress/strain, temperature, pressure, fluid velocity, fluid flow rate, vibration/acceleration, and sound. The MECH 380 Lab has four workbenches. Each workbench has set of basic measurement equipment including a digital oscilloscope, an electronic counter, a digital multimeter, a DC power supply, a function generator, and a computer-based data acquisition system consisting of a personal computer with data acquisition software and interfaced analog-to-digital converter and digital counter cards. In addition, on a week-to-week basis, specialized equipment is brought out of the cabinets and set up for each of the nine (some one week, some two week) labs.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Kinematics and Machine Design Laboratory</span> is a teaching laboratory for undergraduate students. The laboratory consists of equipment and instruments for conducting experiments in kinematics and machine design. One piece of major equipment is the rapid prototyping machine, which accepts design specifications from a computer and forms a prototype of the design using plastic injection. This machine provides the student with experience in design integration from concept to product. We have also recently upgraded the rapid prototyping laboratory with the acquisition of the MakerBot Thing-O-Matic 3-D printer kit. This 3D printer uses ABS plastic to create rapid prototyped objects with better than 1 mm feature resolution; it accepts standard CAD models converted to g-code and is a low-cost alternative to high-end rapid prototyping services or equipment. Accessories in this laboratory include desktop computers, a wide-carriage printer, and other instruments. Kawasaki also donated a retired robot that is now utilized in this laboratory.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Thermal Fluids Laboratory</span> involves design, execution and evaluation of physical experiments in the areas of thermodynamics, fluid mechanics, and heat transfer. There are three major, heavily-instrumented experiments: 1) a two stage air-compressor with intercooling, 2) a versatile air conditioning unit, and 3) a Ford gasoline engine with a Superflow water brake dynamometer, supported with a data acquisition system. The course involves design, execution and evaluation of physical experiments in the areas of thermodynamics, fluid mechanics, and heat transfer. In addition, the facilities include “table top” instrumentation for viscosity measurement, measurement of pressure distribution on an airfoil, flow visualization and head loss across a valve on which students conduct experiments.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Mechatronics Laboratory</span> is well-equipped for teaching courses in mechatronics, robotics, and controls. It is used primarily for MECH 457 and MECH 450, but is also used for other courses, and by both undergraduate and graduate students working on research projects. The laboratory contains desktop computers, modular robots, digital oscilloscopes, function generators, computer controllers, soldering systems, and many other accessories.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">The Department also has computational facilities available to students. The computer lab has a suite of personal computers with a full complement of computing resources available to students.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Research Laboratories.</span> These laboratories, extensions of those described above, are equipped for research in the fields of fluid mechanics, heat transfer, thermodynamics, turbulence, flow visualization, fluid mechanics, measurements, turbomachinery and engine research, combustion, materials, mechanical design, dynamics, computational, solid and applied mechanics, biomedical engineering, and controls. Many of our undergraduate students gain valuable experience working on research projects under the guidance of professors. These are funded by research grants or the University’s UCARE program.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Some of the extracurricular opportunities for students to gain hands-on engineering experience include SAE Baja, SAE Formula (both through Husker Motorsports), NASA microgravity, AIAA competitions, and others.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>