<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Modern Languages-French, German & Russian Minor (ENGR) 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="modern-languages-french-german-russian-minor-engr-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Modern Languages-French, German & Russian Minor (ENGR)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Modern Languages-French, German & Russian Minor (ENGR)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> Plan A–12 hrs; Plan B–9 hrs</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> </p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">This minor is for engineering majors ONLY.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The College of Engineering enables its students to participate in this approved minor subject to the following conditions:</span></p>
<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">1. A minor will not reduce or alter the existing course or degree requirements for students electing to pursue a minor.</span></p>
<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">2. A student’s minor program must be organized and approved by an adviser prior to the submission of the senior check to the department chair or head.</span></p>
<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">3. The minor must be approved by the adviser, the department chair or head, the Dean and the cognizant program offering the minor.</span></p>
<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">4. The College of Engineering will follow the “Plan A/B” format of the Arts and Sciences College in which a student pursuing a single minor must complete the “Plan A” requirements. A student pursuing a double (or greater) minor must fulfill either the “Plan A” or “Plan B” requirements for both minors depending on which plan is offered by the cognizant department.</span></p>
<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">5. Minors on the Lincoln or Omaha campuses may be added by approval of the College of Engineering Curriculum Committee and faculty.</span></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A Minor. </span><span class="generated-style">12 hours at the 203 level and above, including 6 hours at the 300 level.</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan B Minor. </span><span class="generated-style">9 hours at the 203 level and above, including 3 hours at the 300 level.</span></p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>