<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Music Education 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="music-education-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Music Education</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Fine &amp; Performing Arts</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Music Education</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Music Education</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Robert Woody</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: John W. Richmond,</span> 120 Westbrook Music Building</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor:</span> Nierman</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Fuelberth, Moore, Woody</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice: </span>Bazan</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students wanting to teach music in K-12 schools should pursue a bachelor of music education degree. This degree leads to an endorsement (certification) in vocal and instrumental music.</p>
<p class="title-2">Degree at a Glance</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">ACE Requirements 30</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE Outcome 6 must be MUED 244</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE Outcome 7 must be MUSC 160</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE Outcome 9 must be MUSC 280</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE Outcome 10 must be MUED 403</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Library 110 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Academic Electives 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Any 3-credit course that is not from music or education.</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Music Core 27</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Professional and Music Education Requirements 41</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Music K-12 Endorsement Requirements 27</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours Required for Graduation 120</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Core Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">A three-year sequence of courses called the Music Core Curriculum is at the heart of the School of Music instructional program. Music Core Curriculum courses may not be taken for a Pass/No Pass grade.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The first year of study provides, within a comprehensive framework, a foundation for the successful study of music in an academic environment. Courses include an historical overview and concentrate on music fundamentals, keyboard and aural skills, and conducting. Courses are taken concurrently in each of two semesters beginning with the fall semester.</p>
<p class="title-2">BME Music Education</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Core Curriculum 27</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 64 Senior Assessment in Music 0</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 131 Keyboard Skills I 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 132 Keyboard Skills II 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 160 Music as Art, Discipline, &amp; Profession 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 165 Musicianship I 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 165A Musicianship I Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 166 Musicianship II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 166A Musicianship II Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 265 Musicianship III 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 265A Musicianship III Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 266 Musicianship IV 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 266A Musicianship IV Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 274 Beginning Conducting 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 365 Music History and Literature I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 366 Music History and Literature II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSR 68 Recital Attendance (7 semesters) 0</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span> Students preparing for teaching careers will enroll in the following professional courses. Careful planning for the sequencing of these courses is of utmost importance. Students must consult their adviser regularly to be sure their programs are properly scheduled.</p>
<p class="basic-text">See below for additional teacher certification information.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Professional and Music Education Requirements 41</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUED 201 Introduction to Music Education 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUED 244 Music Learning &amp; Development 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUED 297 Professional Practicum Experience 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Admission to the Music Teacher Education Endorsement Program is required prior to the following:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUED 343 Music Composition Methods 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUED 344 General Music Methods 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUED 345 Instrumental Music Methods 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUED 346 Choral Music Methods 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUED 374 Advanced Conducting 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUED 397A Practicum Experience: General Music 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUED 397B <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MUED 397D Practicum Experience: Instrumental/Choral 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUED 401 Advanced Methods in Music Education 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUED 403 Student Teaching Seminar 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUED 470 Music &amp; Special Education 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUED 497D <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MUED 497T Student Teaching: Elementary/Secondary 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUED 497D <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MUED 497T Student Teaching: Elementary/Secondary 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Music K-12 Endorsement Requirements 27</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUAP Applied Area <span class="requirement-ital">(2 credits each semester)</span> 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Diction and Literature <span class="requirement-ital">(voice emphasis) Select two from:</span> 0</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MUSC 25 English &amp; Italian Diction &amp; Literature (0 hr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MUSC 26 German Diction &amp; Literature</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MUSC 27 French Diction &amp; Literature</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUAP 231 &amp; MUAP 232 Keyboard Skills III &amp; IV <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> demonstrated proficiency 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUAP 235, MUAP 236, MUAP 237, MUAP 238, MUAP 239, MUAP 240 Instrumental Skills Classes 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUDC Ensembles <span class="requirement-ital">(see School of Music Handbook)</span> 7</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSR 90 Sophomore or Junior Recital in Applied Music 0</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">(Music education students cannot present student recitals during student teaching.)</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Requirements for Continuing Study Toward a Music Degree</p>
<p class="basic-text">Music education majors are required to demonstrate adequate skills in applied music, functional keyboard, theory and sight singing before they may continue toward the completion of a degree. The following prerequisites are in place to secure this requirement.</p>
<p class="title-2">Applied Music–Upper Divisional Qualifying Jury</p>
<p class="basic-text">Music majors must pass the <span class="basic-text-bold">Upper Divisional Qualifying Jury</span> (UDQJ) to be admitted into 300-level applied music. The UDQJ is usually taken in the fourth semester of applied study.</p>
<p class="title-3">Part I – Basic Skills</p>
<p class="basic-text">Faculty evaluate the student’s minimal capabilities, including the ability to sight read and perform scales and arpeggios, to determine if the student may continue as a music major.</p>
<p class="title-3">Part II - Musicianship</p>
<p class="basic-text">Faculty evaluate the student’s performance to determine if the student may continue as a music major.</p>
<p class="title-3">Evaluation</p>
<p class="basic-text">The UDQJ is judged Pass/No Pass, with pass meaning that the student’s basic musical skills and musicianship are judged to be at least minimal for his/her instrument. The jury members in each area will use a general consensus approach in determining Pass/No Pass. A no pass on the UDQJ will indicate an interpretation by the faculty that the student has not completed the requirements for the Upper Divisional Qualifying Jury, resulting in a formal grade of <span class="basic-text-bold">incomplete</span>. The student then has two additional juries to remove the incomplete. The student may continue to register for applied study at the 200 level for a maximum of two semesters until the incomplete is removed. After one year, the incomplete will expire, causing the grade to revert to a D or F. If the student passes the re-take before the beginning of the 2nd week of classes, he/she will be permitted to register for 300-level applied music courses for that semester.</p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span> A re-examination will be scheduled only during the first week of classes following a semester in which the UDQJ was failed or during regular scheduled jury times at the end of a semester.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The status of music major is provisional, pending a satisfactory completion of the UDQJ. The result of the UDQJ is validated on the <span class="basic-text-bold">UDQJ JURY</span> form with faculty signatures, and filed in the music office.</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<ul>
<li>All courses taken to fulfill music major or minor requirements must be taken for a grade (except those only offered as Pass/No Pass).</li>
<li>Students must earn grades of C or better in these courses. Any course in which a student earns a grade of C- or below must be repeated in order to count toward the requirement.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-1">Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules, Transfer Credit used in Major Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">The following will be used by advisers as guidelines for the evaluation of transfer credits that are less than five years old:</p>
<ul>
<li>If a transfer student has successfully completed (grade C or above) approved transfer credits that are <span class="bullet-1-bold">equivalent</span> to NU area requirements in terms of number of credit hours and scope of content, that area will be considered completed at the discretion of the chief degree program adviser.</li>
<li>For approved transfer credits which are <span class="bullet-1-bold">lacking equivalency</span> in either number of credit hours, scope of content, or grade received to NU area requirements in applied music, music theory, sight singing/aural skills, and keyboard skills, the number of transfer credits accepted and placement in the NU area will be determined by audition/proficiency tests administered by designated area faculty.</li>
<li>For approved transfer credits that are <span class="bullet-1-bold">lacking equivalency</span> in other music areas (history and ensembles) the number of transfer credits accepted will be determined by the chief degree program adviser.</li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">All music course work that is <span class="basic-text-bold">more than five years old</span> must be validated by an audition or competency examination given by designated area faculty.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>
<p class="title-1">Major/Department Admission</p>
<p class="basic-text">A performance audition is required for acceptance as music education major. Auditions are generally held in January and February. The Glenn Korff School of Music should be contacted for audition dates and other details.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>
<p class="title-1">Ensembles</p>
<p class="title-2">MUDC/MUCO</p>
<p class="basic-text">Music Ensembles for Degree Credit (MUDC) are exclusively for music majors and minors to fulfill major and minor degree requirements. Music Ensembles for Elective Credit Only (MUCO) are for all other students, and music majors and minors who register for more than one ensemble per semester. All students (full-time music majors, music minors, students registered for applied music, and students with majors or minor outside music) participating in an ensemble in a given semester must register for a minimum of 1 MUDC or MUCO credit. Students participating in more than one ensemble during the same semester may register for zero credit for the additional ensemble(s) using a MUCO ensemble number. All students who do not take applied lessons for credit in a given semester and are in an ensemble must register for the ensemble MUDC or MUCO for credit. No zero credit enrollment will be allowed for such students. Ensemble registrations may be repeated for credit. Ensembles taken in excess of degree requirements will only count as electives.</p>
<p class="title-2">First Year/First Semester Student Ensemble Registration Policy</p>
<ul>
<li>All string majors must register for Symphony Orchestra (MUDC 247).</li>
<li>All wind and percussion majors must register for Symphonic Band (MUDC 248B or MUCO 248B) or UNL Jazz Orchestra (MUDC 253A or MUCO 253A).</li>
<li>All voice majors and all piano, organ, guitar, harp, harpsichord, and composition majors must register for Varsity Choir (MUDC 243) or University Chorale (MUDC 246).</li>
<li>All music minors (any applied emphasis) registered for applied music must register for an applied related ensemble (Group I, IA, or II) selected from the List of Approved Ensembles.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-2">Requirements for Majors</p>
<p class="basic-text">Every full-time music major (12 credit hours or more) enrolled in applied music lessons must perform in an ensemble from the List of Approved Ensembles (BA/BM keyboard and guitar players may also use MUDC 440A, MUDC 440B, or MUDC 352) each semester. Students who have not fulfilled ensemble degree requirements should register for one (and only one) MUDC ensemble per semester. The ensembles listed under the MUDC listing are the only ensembles that will fulfill the degree requirements. Only 1 credit under the MUDC listing may be taken per semester. Students may register for additional ensembles using the MUCO listing. Students in the music education degree program are exempt from ensemble participation during the semester in which they student teach. After the student has completed the minimum ensemble requirement for a degree, the student may participate in any ensembles listed below in the List of Approved Ensembles (plus MUDC 440A, MUDC 440B, or MUDC 352 for keyboard, composition, or guitar students).</p>
<p class="title-2">Bachelor of Music Education</p>
<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-ital">(See following List of Approved Ensembles)</span></p>
<p class="title-3">Vocal Emphasis</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">1 credit Varsity Chorus (MUDC 243) or University Chorale (MUDC 246)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">4 credits from Vocal Group I or IA</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">1 credit from Instrumental Group II and 1 credit from Instrumental or Vocal Group II</p>
<p class="title-3">Instrumental Emphasis (winds, strings, percussion)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">1 credit Varsity Chorus (MUDC 243) or University Chorale (MUDC 246)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">4 credits from Instrumental Group I or IA (wind and percussion majors: min 3 cr in Wind Ensemble, Symphonic Band, or Symphony Orchestra; string majors: min 3 cr in Symphony Orchestra)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">2 credits from Vocal or Instrumental Group II</p>
<p class="title-3">Piano, Organ, Guitar, Harp, Harpsichord, Composition Emphasis</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">1 credit Varsity Chorus (MUDC 243) or University Chorale (MUDC 246)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">4 credits from Vocal or Instrumental Group I or IA</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">1 credit from Vocal Group II and 1 credit from Instrumental Group II</p>
<p class="title-2">List of Approved Ensembles</p>
<p class="title-3">Instrumental (MUDC)</p>
<p class="list">Group I: Symphony Orchestra (<span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>247 or <span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>447), Wind Ensemble (<span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>248A or <span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>448A), UNL Jazz Orchestra (<span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>253A or <span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>453A)</p>
<p class="list">Group IA: Symphonic Band (<span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>248B or <span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>448B), UNL Big Band (<span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>253B or <span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>453B)</p>
<p class="list">Group II: Symphony Orchestra (<span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>247 or <span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>447) (vocal emphasis only), Symphonic Band (<span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>248B or <span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>448B) (string and vocal emphasis only), Campus Band (<span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>248D or <span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>448D) (secondary area only), Marching Band (<span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>248E or <span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>448E) (max 1 cr), UNL Big Band (<span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>253B or <span class="no-style-override">MUDC </span>453B)</p>
<p class="title-3">Vocal (MUDC)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Group I: University Singers (MUDC 245 or MUDC 445)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Group IA: Concert Choir (MUDC 242), All Collegiate Choir (MUDC 241 or MUDC 441), Chamber Singers (MUDC 249 or MUDC 449), Varsity Chorus (MUDC 243; max 1 cr), University Chorale (MUDC 246; max 1 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Group II: Concert Choir (MUDC 242) (instrumental <span class="no-style-override-1">emphasis</span> only), Varsity Chorus (MUDC 243 or MUDC 443), University Chorale (MUDC 246 or MUDC 446), Jazz Vocal Ensemble (MUDC 253D or MUDC 453D-vocal section only), Big Red Singers (MUDC 251 or MUDC 451; max 2 cr)</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> Students registering to fulfill Group I degree ensemble requirements must audition for and participate in a Group I ensemble. If it is not possible to accommodate the student in a Group I ensemble, the student must audition and participate in a Group IA ensemble to fulfill the Group IA requirement.</p>
<p class="title-1">Admission to Music Teacher Education Program</p>
<p class="basic-text">Admission to the Music Teacher Education Program is a prerequisite for a music education major to enroll in any 300- or 400-level music education courses. Admission is competitive and enrollment is limited. Admission requires meeting all of the following criteria:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Completion of at least 42 credit hours with a minimum 2.5 GPA.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Completion of MUED 201 and MUED 244 with a minimum grade of “C” and MUED 297 with a Pass.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Documentation of proficiency in reading, writing, and mathematics through successful completion of a basic skills examination that meets the Nebraska Department of Education competency requirement.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Passing the Applied Music–Upper Divisional Qualifying Jury.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">5. Completion of MUSC 266, MUSC 266A, and MUAP 232 (or piano proficiency).</p>
<p class="numbered-list">6. Completion of a personal and professional fitness self-disclosure form and formal criminal history background check (fee required). (Undertaken during MUED 201 and MUED 297.)</p>
<p class="numbered-list">7. Successful completion of a screening interview and digital portfolio review with music education faculty. (Undertaken during MUED 244.)</p>
<p class="title-2">Interview and Portfolio Review Process</p>
<p class="basic-text">Through course work taken during the freshman and sophomore years, each student will compile a digital portfolio to give evidence of his or her potential as a music teacher. This portfolio will include an autobiographical essay, an educational philosophy statement, a professional resume, and sample lesson plans. The music education faculty will review the digital portfolio prior to conducting a screening interview. During the interview students will demonstrate their suitability to a career in music education by responding to questions posed by the faculty. Feedback will be provided to each student detailing the results of the faculty’s assessment.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students will be admitted into the Music Teacher Education Program during the spring semester. If a student fails to meet any of the above criteria, they will meet with the music education faculty to determine a course of remediation if applicable. If a student wishes to contest the decision of the music education faculty, they may appeal to the director of the School of Music.</p>
<p class="title-1">Admission to Student Teaching</p>
<p class="basic-text">Student teaching is required for all students who are candidates for an appropriately endorsed Nebraska Teacher’s Certificate. Students who plan to student teach during the fall semester must apply to the coordinator of Music Field Experiences by the preceding March 1. Students who plan to student teach during the spring semester must apply by the preceding October 1.</p>
<p class="basic-text">During their student teaching semester, students are to be enrolled exclusively in courses that comprise the student teaching experience (MUED 403 and MUED 497D or MUED 497T). Students wishing to enroll in a degree requirement course while student teaching (in order to graduate at the end of the semester) may do so only with the permission of the director of the School of Music. Students cannot enroll in classes that are not required for their degree.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The removal of an incomplete in student recitals (MUSR 90, MUSR 91, or MUSR 490) during student teaching must have prior approval from the director of the School of Music.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The basic requirements for admission to student teaching are:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Matriculation in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts, the Graduate College, or dual matriculation in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts and another college.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Admission to the Music Teacher Education Program.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Senior standing (89 hours or more) with a minimum cumulative 2.5 GPA.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Completion of all 300- and 400-level MUED courses: MUED 343, MUED 344, MUED 345, MUED 346, MUED 374, and MUED 470, with a minimum GPA of 2.5 and no grade below C+ (2.33).</p>
<p class="numbered-list">5. Completion of all 300- and 400-level practica: MUED 397A, MUED 397B/D, and MUED 497D/T, each with a grade of Pass.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">6. Completion of a criminal history check that will be conducted by an independent party (fee required).</p>
<p class="basic-text">The basic program for student teaching in music provides for a full-day experience on a semester basis.</p>
<p class="title-2">Student Teaching Placement</p>
<p class="basic-text">Student teachers are placed in many school districts in Lincoln and surrounding areas. Out of state student teaching is also possible. Students should be aware that they may be assigned to a school outside the Lincoln area for student teaching. While student preferences for location will be considered, not all personal preferences can be met.</p>
<p class="title-2">Criminal History/Background Check</p>
<p class="basic-text">All students will be required to have a criminal history/background check completed no earlier than 90 days prior to the first day of their student teaching experience. This will be at the expense of the student. The applications for acceptance into the music teacher education program and into student teaching also require completion of a self-disclosure form.</p>
<p class="title-2">Removal from Student Teaching</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students participating in practicum or student teaching assignments may be removed from their assigned schools if their conduct suggests a lack of professional commitment and presents a negative influence on the well-being or learning of the students in the schools. If such a problem occurs, the student in question will be removed by the coordinator of Music Field Experiences at the request of the cooperating teacher, building principal, and the university supervisor. In such cases, a written report stating the problem and efforts to correct the situation will be forwarded to the Certification Officer for the College of Education and Human Sciences.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Any student removed from a practicum or student teaching assignment may appeal that decision by submitting a written request to the director of the School of Music within 30 days of the removal. The director will schedule a meeting, request pertinent information from the coordinator of Music Field Experiences, and notify the student several days in advance of the scheduled appeal meeting. Students are advised of their right to seek legal advice and may personally attend the appeals meeting. The decision will be forwarded in writing to the student, to the coordinator of Music Field Experiences, the director of Field Experiences for the College of Education and Human Sciences, and to the dean of the College.</p>
<p class="title-2">Moral Character and Safety Concerns</p>
<p class="basic-text">Teaching is a profession that requires its potential candidates to be individuals of integrity. Prospective teachers must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and for their students. Teachers are responsible for the education, safety and well-being for anyone in their charge. Therefore, the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts is interested in training future teachers who show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act responsibly. These individuals must be able to serve as representatives of our College and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln.</p>
<p class="basic-text">With this in mind, should the College discover behavior, which in its reasonable judgment, establishes on the part of the candidate a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons and others in the educational community, the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts reserves the right to deny entry to or dismiss anyone from any program which leads to certification. More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum, pre-practicum, student teaching, or similar field experience, since the interests and safety of the children and young people present in the classroom, schools, and other venues where these practicum experiences take place are paramount.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Problematic behaviors, which the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts reasonably determines renders the candidate a risk to the educational community or demonstrates a likelihood of illegal activity, may be established by any credible means, including the facts surrounding a record of arrests and/or convictions.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Similarly, behaviors which result in a finding by a court or other governmental body that the individual is:</p>
<ul>
<li>a mentally ill and dangerous person;</li>
<li>mentally incompetent to stand trial;</li>
<li>acquitted of criminal charges because of insanity;</li>
<li>an incapacitated person;</li>
<li>a person in need of a guardian or conservator, or;</li>
<li>a person unable to manage his or her property due to mental illness, mental deficiency, or chronic use of drugs or chronic intoxication are the kind of behaviors which are likely to disqualify a candidate from participation in practicum experiences and other Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts programs.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-2">Nebraska State Department of Education Policy Pertaining to Students with Felony or Misdemeanor Convictions</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Nebraska Department of Education policy requires that a person with felony convictions or misdemeanor convictions involving abuse, neglect, or sexual misconduct shall not be allowed to participate in pre-student teaching laboratory and classroom experiences or student teach without approval by the Board of Education. To comply with this policy, the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts will require each student to affirm under oath that he or she does not have any convictions in the above named areas prior to each field placement. If a student does have any felony or misdemeanor convictions, he/she is required to meet with Dr. Tom Wandzilak, Certification Officer, Student Services Center, 104 Henzlik Hall, 402-472-8626, as soon as possible. Students with questions pertaining to convictions should contact Dr. Wandzilak.</p>
<p class="title-2">Application for a Nebraska Teaching Certificate</p>
<p class="basic-text">To actively engage in the teaching profession, a candidate must fulfill both the College degree requirements and the professional certification requirements of the State of Nebraska. Undergraduate students apply for the teaching certificate at the same time they apply for the baccalaureate degree in 109 Canfield Administration Building. Post-baccalaureate students completing teacher certification apply to the Chief Adviser for Music Education, Westbrook Music Building.</p>
<p class="title-2">Graduation Without Certification</p>
<p class="basic-text">In rare cases, permission may be granted for a student to graduate without a recommendation for certification. This provision is for the student who does not qualify for, or is removed from, student teaching. However, there are times when, because of illness or other extreme situations, a student will decide not to complete all professional requirements. In this situation, the student should contact his or her adviser, then complete a formal request to the coordinator of Music Field Experiences to be allowed to graduate without completing all certification requirements. If permission is granted, the student is expected to complete all professional requirements except student teaching. This includes a passing grade in all methods courses. If a student fails to complete at least one half of the student teaching assignment, the individual will be required to complete a culminating project not to exceed 6 credit hours.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Any student who graduates without a recommendation for certification will not be recommended for teacher certification in any state. In addition, the student will not be eligible for graduation with honors. If, at some future time, the student wishes to complete certification requirements, he or she must first appeal for readmission to the music teacher education program. At least one semester must pass after graduation before the appeal can be made. If the appeal is granted, the student will be treated as a readmitted student and will complete all requirements in effect at the time of reentry, including passing grades in all methods courses.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>