<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Nutrition, Exercise & Health Sciences 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="nutrition-exercise-health-sciences-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Nutrition, Exercise & Health Sciences</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Nutrition, Exercise &amp; Health Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Ben Bannon, Eric Einspahr</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Nutrition, Exercise and Health Science option is designed for those students interested in planning, conducting and managing health-related fitness and wellness programs in a variety of settings. Graduates are prepared to enter a variety of health/fitness/recreation-related positions such as: fitness/wellness programs provided by corporations for their employees; fitness, health assessment, and cardiac rehabilitation programs provided by hospitals or medical clinics; programs provided by YMCA’s, private health clubs and commercial fitness clubs; government or private agencies which provide health or fitness assessment or lifestyle behavior modification programs for employees or other groups of individuals; and community recreation centers and other health, fitness or lifestyle-related endeavors. The nutrition, exercise and health science option provides an appropriate vehicle for premedical, predental, prechiropractic and prephysical therapy majors who may be able to obtain a degree in nutrition and simultaneously meet entrance requirements for a professional program.</p>
<p class="title-1">Degree at a Glance</p>

<p>ACE Requirements 32</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 1. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 2. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 3. EDPS 330 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> EDPS 459 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> STAT 218 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 4. CHEM 109 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 5. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 6. PSYC 181 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Course)</span> 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 7. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 8. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 9. NUTR 253<span class="requirement-ital"> (Professional Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 10. NUTR 488 <span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Professional Requirements <span class="requirement-ital">(A grade of C or above is required)</span> 38</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">NUTR 100, NUTR 244, NUTR 250, NUTR 344, NUTR 384, NUTR 401, NUTR 402, NUTR 453, NUTR 455, NUTR 484 (3 hrs ea) 30</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">NUTR 150 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">NUTR 486 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">FITN 180 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">FITN 222 2</p>
<p>Supporting Courses 31-34</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">MATH 102 or MATH 103 or MATH 106 2-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">BIOC 321 &amp; BIOC 321L 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">BIOS 214 <span class="requirement-ital">(A grade of C or above is required)</span> 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CHEM 110 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Electives 16-19</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 120</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>

<p class="basic-text">ACE Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for NUTR courses.</p>
<p class="basic-text">BIOS 214 (grade of C or higher is required)</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="basic-text-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span></p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>