<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Nutrition Science 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="nutrition-science-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Nutrition Science</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEPARTMENT:</span> Nutrition &amp; Health Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span> Nutrition Science </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 </p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER: </span>Vicki Fisher </p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The Nutrition Science option is designed for students who wish to combine an emphasis in nutrition with a strong science background. This major provides an appropriate vehicle for premedical, predental, nursing, physical therapy, and laboratory technology majors who may be able to obtain a degree in nutrition and simultaneously meet entrance requirements for a professional program. It is also a suitable avenue for students interested in nutrition research and graduate study since it provides an opportunity to emphasize the basic sciences.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADMISSION</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'> The admission requirements for pre-professional programs vary and may change from year to year. Admission to professional programs is competitive. Students need to be aware of not only specific course requirements but also entrance exams, admission deadlines, research and volunteer opportunities, and other activities that enhance the application. In order to receive the most timely information on requirements and preparation, students should visit the Explore Center, 33 Canfield Administration Building, 402-472-3605.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Degree at a Glance</p>
			<p class="requirement-hours" xml:lang='en-us'> Hours</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Requirements 32</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 1. 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 2. 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 3. EDPS 459 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> STAT 218 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 4. CHEM 109 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Course)</span> 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 5. 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 6. PSYC 181 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Course)</span> 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 7. 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 8. 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 9. NUTR 253 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> COMM 211 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> SOCI 200 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> SOCI 217 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE 10. NUTR 455 <span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Requirement)</span> 3</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Professional Requirements <span class="requirement-ital">(A grade of C or above is required)</span> 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 250, NUTR 401, NUTR 402, NUTR 450, NUTR 452 (3 hrs ea) 15</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Supporting Courses 54-62</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 101 or higher 2-5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 431 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 312 6</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 213L &amp; BIOS 314 2</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 214 5</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 110 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 252 &amp; CHEM 253 7</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'>LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L 4</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 141 &amp; PHYS 142 (5 hrs ea) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 212 (4 hrs ea) 8-10</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select any from the following:</span> 8-11</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-4" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 432; any course 200 or above in BIOS, PHYS, CHEM; CHEM 254; any FDST 400 or above; MATH 102 or higher; NUTR 484; PHIL 213; PSYC 380; or any VBMS 300 or above</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives 11-19</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Total Hours 120</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR/PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS </p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ACE Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
			<p class="asterisk" xml:lang='en-us'>*These (*) courses required in your major, will also meet ACE Requirements.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Professional Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text-no-indent" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="basic-text-ital">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for NUTR courses.</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 250 Human Nutrition &amp; Metabolism</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 401 Health Behavior <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> NUTR 403 Physiological Foundations of Health &amp; Disease</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 402 Facts &amp; Fiction in Fitness &amp; Food</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 450 Medical Nutrition Therapy I</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 452 Medical Nutrition Therapy II</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>*NUTR 455 Advanced Nutrition</p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Supporting Courses</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>*EDPS 459 Statistical Methods <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> STAT 218 Introduction to Statistics</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>*NUTR 253 Cultural Aspects of Food &amp; Nutrition <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> SOCI 200 Women in Contemporary Society <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> SOCI 217 Nationality &amp; Race Relations <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> COMM 211 Intercultural Communication</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>*PSYC 181 Introduction to Psychology</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 101 College Algebra or higher</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 431 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L Human Physiology &amp; Lab</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 214 Human Anatomy</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS 312 &amp; BIOS 314 Microbiology &amp; Lab</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>*CHEM 109 General Chemistry I</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 110 General Chemistry II</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 252 Organic Chemistry II</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L Fundamentals of Biology I &amp; Lab</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L Fundamentals of Biology II &amp; Lab</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS 141 &amp; PHYS 142 Elementary General Physics I &amp; II <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 212 General Physics I &amp; II</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-2" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="requirement-ital">Select from any of the following: </span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOC 432 Gene Expression &amp; Replication</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>BIOS<span class="requirement-ital"> (any course 200 or above)</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM<span class="requirement-ital"> (any course 200 or above)</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>CHEM 254 Organic Chemistry II Lab</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>FDST<span class="requirement-ital"> (any course 400 or above)</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>MATH 102 Trigonometry <span class="requirement-ital">(or higher)</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>NUTR 484 Physiology of Exercise</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PHIL 213 Medical Ethics</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PHYS<span class="requirement-ital"> (any course 200 or above)</span></p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>PSYC 380 Abnormal Psychology</p>
			<p class="requirement-sec-3" xml:lang='en-us'>VBMS<span class="requirement-ital"> (any course 300 or above)</span></p>
			<p class="title-3" xml:lang='en-us'>Electives</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
