<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>PGA Golf Management 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="pga-golf-management-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">PGA Golf Management</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> PGA Golf Management</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in PGA Golf Management</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Alan Baquet</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Alan Baquet,</span> PGA Golf Management Program, 203 Keim Hall</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Faculty Advisory Committee:</span> Heng-Moss (entomology); Karels (finance); Reicher (agronomy and horticulture); Schnepf (nutrition and health sciences)</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website:</span> http://pgm.unl.edu</p>
<ul>
<li>For students who wish to be educated in all aspects of the golf industry and become PGA members.</li>
<li>One of 19 accredited PGA Golf Management University Programs in the country.</li>
<li>Classroom instruction, a player development program taught by PGA professionals, and structured internship experiences provide a basic background in managing golf facilities and related organizations, business and personnel management, restaurant and hospitality management, recreation, and golf instruction methods.</li>
<li>PGA Golf Management Student Club conducts many tournaments each semester.</li>
<li>Graduates are eligible for PGA Class A membership.</li>
<li>Additional PGA Golf Management fees apply.</li>
</ul>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Core Requirements</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">College Integrative Courses 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRI 103 Introduction to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Mathematics and Statistics <span class="requirement-ital">(beyond college algebra) (ACE 3)</span> 5-6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> MATH 102, MATH 104, MATH 106 and STAT 218.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Communications 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Written Communication<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 1)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> ENGL 150, ENGL 151, ENGL 254; JGEN 120, JGEN 200, JGEN 300</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Oral Communication<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 2)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 286</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Leadership<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 2)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 102 Interpersonal Skills for Leadership</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Natural Sciences 10-11</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRO 131 Plant Science<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 4)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 105 Chemistry in Context I <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 109 General Chemistry I<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 4)</span> 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CASNR Approved Life Sciences<span class="requirement-ital"> (select one from):</span> 3-4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab (4 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 109 General Botany (4 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 115 Insect Biology (BIOS 115) (3 hrs) <span class="requirement-ital">(preferred)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Economics, Humanities and Social Sciences 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Courses 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Select one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, and 9.</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Additional Plant Sciences 8</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRO 153 Soil Resources (HORT 153/SOIL 153) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PGAM 227 Introductory Turfgrass Management (AGRO 227/HORT 227/TLMT 227) &amp; PGAM 229 Turfgrass Management Lab for PGAM Students 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Food Service Management 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">HRTM 374 Guest Services Management 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">HRTM 373 Catering 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">HRTM 474 Food &amp; Beverage Management 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Business <span class="requirement-ital">(constitutes Business Minor)</span> 18</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACCT 200 Accounting for Business Decisions 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BLAW 300 Business, Government &amp; Society 3 (ACE 8)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 200 Economic Essentials &amp; Issues<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 6)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">FINA 300 Financial Decision Making 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MNGT 300 Management Essentials for Contemporary Organizations 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MRKT 300 Contemporary Marketing 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> The above block of six courses is for non-business majors. If a student switches to the College of Business Administration, these courses will not satisfy requirements for a business major or minor.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">PGAM Courses 24</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PGAM 101 Introduction to PGA Golf Management 2.0 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PGAM 112 PGA Golf Management 2.0 Level 1-A 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PGAM 201 PGA Golf Management 2.0 Level 1-B 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PGAM 212 PGA Golf Management 2.0 Level 2-A 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PGAM 295 PGA Golf Management Extended Internship 0</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PGAM 301 PGA Golf Management 2.0 Level 2-B 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PGAM 312 PGA Golf Management 2.0 Level 3-A 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PGAM 401 PGA Golf Management 2.0 Level 3-B 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PGAM 489 PGA Golf Management Integration <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 10)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Free Electives 20-22</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Credit Hours 120</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-2">GPA Requirements (related to the major)</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are expected to maintain a 2.5 grade point average, which is required for the College of Business Administration courses.</p>
<p class="title-2">Internship Credit Rules (related to the major)</p>
<p class="basic-text">Complete 16 months of internships in at least three different settings, following the eligible employment guidelines outlined in the PGA Constitution.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER:</p>
<ul>
<li>Participate in Playing Ability Test once in first year and twice each succeeding year until the PAT is passed.</li>
<li>Complete Level 3 of the PGA Golf Management program.</li>
</ul>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>