<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Political Science.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="political-science">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Political Science</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Political Science</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Tyler White</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Elizabeth Theiss-Morse,</span> 509 Oldfather Hall</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Graduate Chair:</span> Ross Miller, 541 Oldfather Hall</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Undergraduate Chair:</span> John Gruhl, 534 Oldfather Hall</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Undergraduate Adviser:</span> Tyler White, 514 Oldfather Hall</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Combs, Gruhl, Hibbing, Michaels, Smith, Theiss-Morse</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors: </span>Kohen, McMahon, Miller</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Haas, Hillebrecht, Kang, Kim, Mitchell, Wals</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Courses in political science examine government and politics in the United States and around the world.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Honors Program.</span> Students interested in the honors program should contact John Gruhl, honors adviser, for further information.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Policy Certificate.</span> An Undergraduate Public Policy Analysis Certificate, through political science, is available to undergraduates in any major and is for students interested in policy issues, policy-related job opportunities, and/or skills for the analysis of public policies and programs. For more information, visit http://polisci.unl.edu/policy-certificate.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Prelaw Students.</span> Students in Prelaw may find the courses in American government, politics, and law particularly useful. In particular, they are advised to take some of the following courses: POLS 345, POLS 347, POLS 441, POLS 442, POLS 443, and POLS 469. College pre-law advising is located in the Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> The advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy are offered. For details on these programs see the <span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span>.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Specific Major Requirements</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">30 hours including: </li>
			</ul>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>a) POLS 100 (or POLS 100H) or POLS 105;</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>b) POLS 108 or POLS 380 or POLS 383 or POLS 384 or POLS 386; </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>c) POLS 160 (or POLS 160H); </p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>d) POLS 400;</p>
			<p class="list-indent" xml:lang='en-us'>e) 6 hours each in any three of the six following categories: American government, politics and law; foreign and comparative government; international relations; political theory; public administration and policy; biology, psychology, and politics.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>For courses at the 400 level the prerequisite, unless otherwise stated, is junior standing or above or permission.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Pass/no pass credit is not available in courses for the major except for POLS 395. Pass/no pass credit is allowed for courses in the minor, subject to College regulations. Request forms are available in the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Course Level Requirement</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>At least 9 hours must be at the 400 level.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
			<p class="header-paragraph" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A.</span> 18 hours including POLS 100 and at least one course at the 400 level.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
