<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Pre-Law (EC) 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="pre-law-ec-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Pre-Law (EC)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Exploratory &amp; Pre-Professional Advising Center</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Pre-Law (EC)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Non-degree seeking</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> N/A</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> N/A</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> N/A</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing basic-text"><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; color: #333333; background: white;">The pre-law area of study is an advising category </span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; mso-fareast-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: #333333;">used to identify students advancing toward a law-related career goal</span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; color: #333333; background: white;">. </span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; mso-fareast-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: #333333;">Students cannot declare a major or earn a degree in the pre-law area. </span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; color: #333333; background: white;">Most students use their undergraduate academic program to develop the desired skill set for entry into law school and the legal profession. Students may select any UNL academic major while pursuing a pre-law area of study, and can temporarily select a major of “Pre-Law” though the College of Arts and Sciences while they are exploring and determining which academic major they would like to declare.</span></p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing basic-text"><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; color: #333333; background: white;"></span></p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing basic-text"><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; mso-fareast-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: #333333;">Students pursuing a pre-law area of study can receive guidance and advice from the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center (Explore Center) by declaring the pre-law category with their college advising office.</span></p>


<p class="MsoNoSpacing"><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; color: #333333; background: white;"></span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal title-1" style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; line-height: normal; mso-outline-level: 3; background: white; vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; mso-fareast-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: #535353;">Pre-Law</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-bottom: .0001pt; line-height: normal; mso-outline-level: 3; background: white; vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; mso-fareast-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: #535353;"><span style="mso-tab-count: 1;"> </span></span><span class="basic-text" style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; color: #333333; background: white;">Law is the system we use to ensure order and justice for individuals and communities within our society. The broad nature of the legal field allows people to work with the law in a number of ways. Litigation (trial practice), representative practice, legal planning, education, and adjudication (becoming a judge) are traditional ways in which people work directly with the law. However, a legal education is useful and may be applied to a variety of other fields such as business, insurance, government, writing, resource management, or publishing.</span><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; mso-fareast-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: #535353;"></span></p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing"><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; color: #333333; background: white;"> </span></p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing"><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; color: #333333; background: white;"></span></p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing title-1"><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; mso-fareast-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: #535353;">High School Preparation</span></p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing basic-text"><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; color: #333333; background: white;">Students planning to pursue advanced work in the pre-law program should begin with a strong college preparatory course program in high school. In addition to meeting the University entrance requirements, it is recommended that pre-law students finish four years of the same foreign language in high school.</span></p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing"><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; color: #333333; background: white;"> </span></p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing title-1"><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; mso-fareast-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: #535353;">Advising</span></p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing basic-text"><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; background: white;">Students are advised in the pre-law area of study by professional academic advisers in the Explore Center. Advisers are available on an appointment and/or walk-in basis Monday through Friday in 127 Love (Library) South and can be reached at 402-472-3605 or <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none; text-underline: none;">explorecenter@unl.edu</span>.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;">  </span>Academic advising appointments can also be scheduled through the MyPLAN tab in Blackboard.</span></p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing"><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; color: #333333; background: white;"></span><span class="basic-text" style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; background: white;">In addition to the Explore Center advisers, students with a declared UNL major should work with their assigned major adviser and <span style="color: #333333;">should check the section of the bulletin outlining the requirements for their specific college of admittance. Those students undecided on a major who were admitted as “Pre-Law” majors to the College of Arts and Sciences should review the college requirements outlined in the Arts and Sciences section of the bulletin.</span></span><span style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; color: #333333; background: white;"></span></p>

<p class="MsoNoSpacing"><span style="font-size: 14.0pt;"></span></p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing title-1"><span style="font-size: 14.0pt; font-family: 'Helvetica','sans-serif'; mso-fareast-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; color: #535353;">Application and Admission to Law Professional Programs</span></p>
<p class="MsoNoSpacing"><span class="basic-text" style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; color: #333333; background: white;">The admission requirements for law professional programs vary and may change from year to year. Admission to<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span>professional programs is competitive. Therefore, students should to be aware of academic recommendations, entrance exams, admission deadlines, research and volunteer opportunities, and other activities that enhance the application. In order to receive the timeliest information on requirements and preparation, students should visit or contact the Explore</span><span class="basic-text"> </span><span class="basic-text" style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; color: #333333; background: white;">Center at 402-472-3605 or explorecenter@unl.edu. Information is also available on the Explore Center website<span class="apple-converted-space"> </span></span><span class="basic-text" style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; color: #b70302; border: none windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-alt: none windowtext 0in; padding: 0in; background: white;">http://explorecenter.unl.edu/</span><span class="basic-text" style="font-size: 9.0pt; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; color: #333333; background: white;">.</span><span style="font-size: 14.0pt;"></span></p>

            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>