<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Spanish (ASC) 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="spanish-asc-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Spanish (ASC)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Spanish (ASC)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Lola Lorenzo</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Evelyn Jacobson,</span> 1111 Oldfather Hall</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Vice Chair: </span>Radha Balasubramanian</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Carr, Hayden-Roy, E. Jacobson, Pereira, Stump</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Balasubramanian, Brantner, Gonzlez, Gonzlez-Allende, Guevara, Kalisa, Lorenzo, Mejias-Bikandi, Saskova-Pierce, Shirer</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Amano, Enkin, Hasan, Kingsbury-Brunetto, Peterson, Velzquez</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Emeriti Professors:</span> Fouletier-Smith, M. Jacobson, Martinez, Nickel, Turner, Wilhelmsen</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Department of Modern Languages and Literatures offers courses in Arabic, German, Japanese, the Romance Language group (French, Spanish), and the Slavic group (Czech, Russian). Whenever possible, the courses are conducted in the language that is studied. The aim of instruction is reading, writing, aural and oral proficiency, and an understanding of the life, literature, and culture of the country. Lectures and films in the language studied are offered during the school year for the benefit of the students in the department. Language laboratories supplement class work.</p>
<p class="title-2">Placement</p>
<p class="basic-text">Incoming students who wish to enter the Universitys language program in French, Spanish, and German are required to take the Computer Assisted Placement Examination (CAPE). The results of the placement exam, together with training in a secondary school university, or other prior second language environments, will assist students in finding the level at which they will have the greatest opportunity for success. The examination results will be used in combination with advising to determine appropriate placement in the sequence of courses offered within the departments curriculum. CAPE is administered in the language laboratory (302 Burnett Hall). Those students exempted from this requirement are expected to enroll in a first semester elementary course (101). Students qualifying for this exemption are defined as follows:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Students with no previous second language exposure whatsoever.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Students whose second language exposure amounts to one year or less at the U.S. high school level.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Students who wish to begin study of a new language other than those previously studied.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Foreign language placement guidelines are generally determined by the following criteria for students who come to the University with:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. 1 semester of a language in high school should take 101 (same language or a new one);</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. 2 or 3 semesters in high school should take 102 (same language);</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. 4 or 5 semesters in high school should take 201;</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. 6 semesters in high school should take 202;</p>
<p class="numbered-list">5. 8 semesters or more in high school should take 203.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The department participates in the following interdisciplinary study programs: Institute for Ethnic Studies, Global Studies, Jewish Studies, Latin American Studies, Medieval and Renaissance Studies, and Womens and Gender Studies.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may receive full credit at the University of Nebraska for education abroad programs in many countries, among these are Costa Rica, France, Germany, Spain, Russia, Japan, and the Czech Republic. See http://educationabroad.unl.edu for a guide to these programs.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Auditing.</span> Audits are allowed in 101 in French, German and Spanish only upon recommendation of the Modern Language Placement Advisers. Otherwise no audits are allowed in 100- and 200-level classes.</p>
<p class="title-2">Literature in Translation</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Department offers the following literature in translation courses for which no knowledge of a foreign language is necessary. Check the Schedule of Classes to determine which are being taught in any given semester: MODL 234D Major Themes in World Literature; MODL 298, MODL 398 Special Topics; FREN 282 and GERM 282 Literature in Translation; SPAN 264 and SPAN 265 Spanish-American Literature in Translation I &amp; II; MODL/GERM 442/842 Survey of Medieval German Literature in Translation; JAPN 331 Introduction to Japanese Film; JAPN 483 Japanese Literature in Translation; and RUSS 482 and RUSS 483 Russian Literature in Translation I &amp; II.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> The advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy are offered in French, German, and Spanish. For details, see the <span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span>.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1 basic-text">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="header-paragraph basic-text"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required to assemble a portfolio. A faculty adviser will inform students of the required contents of the portfolio, deadlines and procedures. During their last semester, Spanish majors will be required to provide oral and written materials for their portfolios.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Results of participation in this assessment activity will in no way affect a students GPA or graduation.</p>

<p class="MsoNormal basic-text">27 hours of courses</p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">• 6 hours of SPAN 305 and SPAN 317 </span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">• 3 hours from SPAN 321 or SPAN 331</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">• 6 additional elective hours of SPAN courses at the 300 level (above SPAN 305)</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">• 9 elective hours of SPAN courses at the 400 level </span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">• 3 additional elective hours of courses at the 300 or 400 level. These additional 3 hours may be:</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"></span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">            - from a SPAN course above SPAN 305</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> </span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">            - from one of the following courses:</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> </span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">                        AHIS 456 Pre-Columbian Art</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">                        AHIS 457 Colonial Art of Latin America</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">                       ANTH 350 Peoples and Cultures of Native Latin America</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">                       ANTH 436 The Ancient Maya</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"></span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">                        HIST 357 Mexican-American History</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">                        </span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; mso-ansi-language: ES-TRAD;">HIST 370 Colonial Mexico</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; mso-ansi-language: ES-TRAD;">                        HIST 371 Modern Mexico</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; mso-ansi-language: ES-TRAD;">                        </span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">HIST 372 Revolutions in 20th century Latin America</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">                        HIST 373 Latin America and Global Relations</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"></span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">                        HIST 470 Digital History Seminar</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">                        HIST 476A Gender and Sexuality in Latin America</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text" style="margin-left: .5in; text-indent: .5in;"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">PHIL 305 Introduction to the Philosophy of Language</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">                        POLS 365 The United States and Latin America</span></p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">                        PSYC 360 Psychology of Language</span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; mso-fareast-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;">                        THEA 368 Digital Media Productions</span></p>

<p class="basic-text">A minor is required and may be taken in any area.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">No courses in the department may be taken by students majoring or minoring in modern languages for Pass/No Pass credit.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A.</span> 12 hours of courses numbered at 305 or above. In addition to 305 (which is compulsory for Plan A), 6 hours from 311, 312, 314, or 315; and 3 hours from 317, 319, 321, or 331.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span></p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>