<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Speech-Language Pathology (CEHS) 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="speech-language-pathology-cehs-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Speech-Language Pathology (CEHS)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education & Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Speech-Language Pathology (CEHS)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education & Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.5 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Cameya Ramirez-Rousseau</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to this pre-professional program, students must also complete a masters degree in speech-language pathology before they can obtain their licensure and/or certification. Upon completion of the speech-language pathology endorsement, a person may serve as a speech-language pathologist and/or resource person.</p>
<p class="title-1">General Information</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College offers undergraduate programs leading to a bachelor of science in education and human sciences degree in more than 40 different teaching endorsements. Some students in other UNL colleges choose to seek certification, completing a degree in their home college while meeting all requirements for teacher certification in the College of Education and Human Sciences.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Early field placement in public and private schools is a nationally recognized hallmark of the teacher education program in the College of Education and Human Sciences. While internships are a valuable enhancement to many students’ education, in the College of Education and Human Sciences, practicum experiences and student teaching are a critical and essential part of the curriculum and these must be successfully completed in order to be certified in the teaching profession. A student’s inability to complete these field experiences, for any reason, may adversely impact the candidate’s ability to gain admission into the College or maintain enrollment in a teacher preparation program. Students unlikely or unable to complete the field experience may be counseled to seek other opportunities where success is more attainable. (See “Felony and Misdemeanor Conviction” and “Professional and Ethical Behavior” under the OTHER heading for additional information with respect to behaviors impacting field experience participation.)</p>
<p class="basic-text">Teacher education endorsements are divided into field endorsements or single-subject endorsements. Field endorsements certify the candidate to teach a broader range of courses compared to single-subject endorsements, which certify the candidate to teach in one subject area only. Consequently, a teacher holding a field endorsement is typically more marketable than a teacher holding a single-subject endorsement.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Candidates may also elect to complete requirements for supplemental endorsements; these are additional endorsements that can be added to a field or single-subject endorsement but cannot be taken alone. Supplemental endorsements require additional credit hours beyond those needed for the first endorsement (field or single-subject). Teachers may increase their marketability by adding supplemental endorsements.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may also choose to complete requirements for two endorsements simultaneously. Completing a second endorsement will require additional credit hours beyond those required for the first endorsement. Often the completion of two endorsements requires more than 120 credit hours of course work and may require additional semesters of course work. Students may contact the College Student Services Center, 105 Henzlik Hall, or their adviser, for assistance in deciding whether to complete: field or single-subject endorsements, one or more supplemental endorsements, or multiple endorsements.</p>
<p class="title-1">Degree at a Glance</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Hours</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Requirements 30-32</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 1. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 2. COMM 109 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> COMM 209 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> COMM 210 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ALEC 102 <span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-Professional Education Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 3. STAT 218 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> EDPS 459 <span class="requirement-ital">(Professional SLPA Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 4. Any PHYS <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM course 3-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 5. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 6. EDPS 250 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> EDPS 251 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CYAF 160 <span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-Professional Education Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 7. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 8. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 9. SLPA 488 <span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-Professional Education Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 10. SLPA 421 <span class="requirement-ital">(Professional SLPA Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Pre-Professional Education Requirements 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">*EDPS 362 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TEAC 259 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">*TEAC 331 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> TEAC 430 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> TEAC 431 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> TEAC 434 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> TEAC 437 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Speech-Language Pathology Pre-Professional Requirements 16-17</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">SLPA 150 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">SLPA 250 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">SLPA 251 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">SLPA 271 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">*BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BIOS 214 4-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Speech-Language Pathology Professional Requirements 29-32</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">SLPA 397A 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">SLPA 441 <span class="requirement-ital">(Optional for students continuing in Audiology)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">SLPA 452 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">SLPA 454 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">SLPA 455 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">SLPA 456 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">SLPA 461 &amp; SLPA 461L 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">SLPA 464 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">SLPA 472 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">SPED 400 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Electives 30-36</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 120</p>
<p class="asterisk">* These courses are also approved ACE courses and together with the 30 hours of ACE Required Courses meet the additional ACE/General Education requirements for secondary education students.</p>
<p class="title-1">ACE Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Admission to the College of Education and Human Sciences does not guarantee admission into a teacher education program. Admission into the undergraduate pre-professional training program in SLPA does not guarantee admission into graduate school for SLPA. Although a student initially takes four pre-professional SLPA courses, the Speech-Language Pathology program has competitive admission requirements into the advanced professional phases of the program. Students must apply by September 15th for a spring admission or by February 1st for a fall admission and must satisfy the following requirements in order to be eligible to apply to the program:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Must have earned a minimum of 42 credit hours of college credit with a minimum 3.2 cumulative GPA.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Completion of the pre-professional SLPA classes (SLPA 150, SLPA 250, SLPA 251, and SLPA 271) by the end of the semester in which you apply and with a minimum average 3.2 GPA.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Completion of BIOS 213 and 213L or BIOS 214.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Completion of TEAC 331, COMM 109, and EDPS 250 or 251 or approved substitutes with no grade lower than a C.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">5. Documentation of proficiency in reading, writing, and mathematics through successful completion of the Praxis I, Pre-Professional Skills Test (PPST), a basic skills examination that meets the Nebraska Department of Education competency requirement.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">6. Completion of a personal and professional fitness self-disclosure form (PPF) as well as the completion of a formal criminal history review, for CEHS, by the vender approved by CEHS (fee required).</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Requirements in Education Programs</p>
<p class="basic-text">Requirements for completion of an undergraduate degree in a teacher preparation program include a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.5. Students seeking certification must also have a 2.5 GPA in their endorsement and education courses with no grade lower than a C in their pre-professional courses and no grade lower than a C+ in their professional education courses.</p>
<p class="title-2">Transfer Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Up to 9 hours of transfer credit with grades below C may be applied to the General Education requirements and elective classes in programs leading to the undergraduate degree in teacher preparation. Transfer grades of C- and D may not be used in the major/endorsement area courses or in the professional courses in teacher preparation programs.</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Grade Option–for Education Students</p>
<p class="basic-text">A student enrolled at the University may, in certain instances, take a grading option of Pass/No Pass (P/N) for a specific course. A grade of pass represents satisfactory completion of a course with a grade of C or better. Credits earned under the pass grade option count toward graduation, but no grade points are tabulated in the cumulative grade point average. Likewise, a grade of no pass is not tabulated in the grade point average. The following rules apply to students who are enrolled in teacher preparation programs who choose the Pass/No Pass option:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Only one course in each subject endorsement may be taken P/N; two courses in a field endorsement may be taken P/N.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Pre-professional and professional education classes may not be taken P/N unless a class already has a P/N designation.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Any course in the general education requirements unless otherwise stipulated by the department of the course may be taken P/N.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Total P/N credits may not exceed 12 credit hours. This limit does not include courses offered on a P/N only basis.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL.</p>
<p class="title-2">Beyond Classroom Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">In all fields of study, students are expected to attain certain grades and other academic accomplishments in the classroom. In addition to this, students preparing themselves to be teachers, counselors and for other careers in education, are also reviewed to evaluate their ability to successfully and safely interact with children, parents, potential educational employers, and the community-at-large, whose interest in the education of its children often exceeds its concern for other community and governmental services.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR/PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Pre-Professional SLPA Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text-no-indent">Complete the following course work by the end of the semester in which you apply to the Professional Program. A minimum GPA of 3.2 in the four pre-professional SLPA courses and a cumulative GPA of 3.2 or higher is necessary to apply to the program. All grades must be C or above.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">SLPA 150, SLPA 250, SLPA 251, SLPA 271, BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L  <span class="requirement-ital">or</span> BIOS 214  <span class="requirement-ital">(Must be completed before application.)</span></p>
<p class="title-1"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> SLPA students who complete sufficient course work in education will receive a minor in education along with the major degree.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>
<p class="title-1">Education Employment Services</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Career Services Center, 230 Nebraska Union, offers a professional placement service to students and alumni who are seeking employment in education and related fields. In addition to providing on-campus interviews with select schools throughout the year, this office sponsors an annual Education Recruitment Day in the spring, which offers students an opportunity to interview with hiring officials from many schools.</p>
<p class="title-1">Felony and Misdemeanor Convictions</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS), along with the public and private schools and community agencies who provide services or programs for children, are all keenly attuned to the safety of the educational community, and particularly children in the classroom. We have the responsibility to ensure that our students who interact with individuals served by schools or other agencies meet a high level of personal, professional and ethical behavior.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Nebraska Department of Education policy requires that a person with any felony conviction or a misdemeanor conviction involving assault, abuse, neglect, or sexual misconduct shall not be allowed to participate in pre-student teaching laboratory and classroom experiences or student teach without approval of the State Board of Education. To comply with this policy, the College of Education and Human Sciences will require each student in a teacher education program to complete a “Personal and Professional Fitness” form (PPF) and two formal reviews of their criminal history, which is conducted by the approved CEHS vender. The first review and the PPF will be completed during the first semester of the individual’s entry into the College. The second criminal history background check will take place as part of the student teaching application process. Each student is responsible for the cost of the two criminal history reviews. Students in non-teacher education programs who interact with children in a public agency setting must also complete an official criminal history background check by the approved CEHS vender, upon entry into the College and prior to the student’s culminating field experience or internship and are responsible for the cost of the reviews. <span class="basic-text-bold">Each student who has completed an initial Criminal History Background Check is required to report any new charge or conviction acquired after the initial check, to the Director of Field Experiences.</span></p>
<p class="basic-text">If a student does have any felony or any misdemeanor charges or convictions, he/she is required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Field Experience as soon as possible. This meeting will be held so that the student can receive guidance with respect to the impact of the conviction on the student’s future in the College, the State Board of Education approval and, more broadly, on the student’s ability to find success in the profession of education.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences aims to train and graduate teachers of the highest caliber possible, and therefore, the standards the College sets for its students may be more stringent than the rules the Department of Education sets for field experience. A student should not assume that merely because the State Board of Education would approve placement in the field, that the College is willing to make such a placement, or that a participating partner school is willing to accept the student’s placement into its midst.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The consequences of one conviction compared to another may vary significantly, depending upon the facts underlying the convictions. Those facts are determined by the College. In some instances, the behavior associated with the conviction may be so egregious as to render placement in a field experience virtually impossible. In such instances, termination or long-term suspension from a teaching program may be appropriate. In other instances, a responsible passage of time without further criminal incident may indicate that the student has matured and is ready to reconvene his or her education. Consequences will very likely be different from case to case, as each of these difficult matters is unique. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that the safety of children in the classroom, the best interest of the student, and the reputation of the College, are all recognized and promoted. Failure to honestly disclose a conviction may be cause for disciplinary action separate from the conviction itself. Students willing to honestly address the challenges that arise from the past mistakes are more likely to reach a favorable outcome, than those who further jeopardize their integrity with a lie.</p>
<p class="title-2">Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</p>
<p class="basic-text">In additional to criminal convictions, other non-criminal behaviors which: involve risks that are unacceptable for future teachers and the children charged to their care; demonstrate a lack of professionalism and good judgment; and evidence a disregard for one’s personal reputation, the integrity of the College and the teaching profession, may bring into question a student’s ability to be successful in an education career. Before engaging in such questionable behavior, students must consider how the College, the profession, educational employer, parents of school-aged children, and the community which is the State of Nebraska, would perceive or evaluate the impact of that behavior with respect to the students’ ability to serve children. To be allowed to teach is a great honor and a great responsibility. Teaching is a profession that requires its potential candidates to be individuals of the highest integrity. Prospective teachers must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and for their students. They serve as important role models and mentors for children during very impressionable years. Teachers are responsible for the education, safety and well-being for anyone in their charge. Indeed, teachers hold the future of all in their care. Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences is most interested in training future teachers who show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act responsibly. These individuals must be able to serve as representatives of our College and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. These standards and practices also apply to individuals in CEHS programs intended to serve children in a community setting.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should the College, through the reasonable exercise of the judgment of its Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience, determine that a student’s individual behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons and others in the educational community, the College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to deny entry to or dismiss such a student from any program which leads to certification or to service of children in a community agency. More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum, pre-practicum, student teaching or similar field experience, since the interests and safety of the children, and young people present in the classroom, schools and other venues where these practicum experiences take place are paramount.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Problematic behaviors, which the College of Education and Human Sciences reasonably determines renders the candidate a risk to the educational community or demonstrates a likelihood of illegal activity, may be established by any credible means, including the facts surrounding a record of arrests and/or convictions.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Similarly, behaviors which result in a finding by a court or other governmental body that the individual is:</p>
<ul>
<li>a mentally ill and dangerous person;</li>
<li>mentally incompetent to stand trial;</li>
<li>acquitted of criminal charges because of insanity;</li>
<li>an incapacitated person;</li>
<li>a person in need of a guardian or conservator, or;</li>
<li>a person unable to manage his or her property due to mental illness, mental deficiency, or chronic use of drugs or chronic intoxication are the kind of behaviors which are likely to disqualify a candidate from participation in practicum experiences and other College of Education and Human Sciences programs.</li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">Similar to the discussion concerning criminal convictions above, the consequences for unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will very likely be different in each case, due to the unique circumstances involved in each matter. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that safety in the classroom, the reputation of the College, and the best interest of the student, are all recognized and promoted.</p>
<p class="title-2">Appeal to the Dean</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience with respect to a criminal behavior matter, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing within no greater than ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student’s written appeal shall clearly explain to the Dean the basis for the student’s appeal. The Dean will review the student’s basis for appeal, and is authorized, but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student’s written appeal. The Dean is authorized to collect such additional information as she or he deems necessary to review an investigation (including but not limited to the student’s educational records maintained by the College, other documentation, personal interviews and meetings with the student, College faculty, administration and staff, and others with relevant information). The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possibly, but in no case longer than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience or both, a written decision, which decision shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review within the University of Nebraska.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>