<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Speech-Language Pathology &amp; Audiology (ASC) 13-14.xhtml</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
<body>
	<div id="speech-language-pathology-audiology-asc-13-14">
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="major-name" xml:lang='en-us'>Speech-Language Pathology &amp; Audiology (ASC)</p>
		</div>
		<div class="generated-style">
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Speech-Language Pathology &amp; Audiology</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
			<p class="quick-points" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Cameya Ramirez</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>DESCRIPTION</p>
			<p class="faculty-list" xml:lang='en-us'><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Sherri Jones,</span> 301 Barkley Memorial Center</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>The program in Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology is housed in the Department of Special Education and Communication Disorders in the College of Education and Human Sciences. The program offers both a bachelor of arts degree and a bachelor of science degree through the College of Arts and Sciences and a bachelor of science degree through the College of Education and Human Sciences. Both degrees provide the preprofessional courses required for graduate study in either speech-language pathology or audiology. The entry level for practice as a speech-language pathologist requires a masters degree. A doctorate of audiology (AuD) is required to practice audiology. For information on programs leading to degrees and for a detailed description of courses required, please see the College of Education and Human Sciences section of this bulletin.</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Teacher certification in speech-language pathology requires a masters degree with specialization in speech-language pathology, passing scores on the Pre-Professional Skills Test, satisfactory completion of EDPS 250, EDPS 251, or CYAF 160, EDPS 362 and SLPA 488 or TEAC 330 or the graduate-level equivalents. Completion of a masters degree with specialization in speech-language pathology and a passing score on the speech-language pathology Praxis national certification exam is required for state licensure and/or public school certification in speech-language pathology. A doctor of audiology degree (AuD) and a passing score on the audiology Praxis national certification exam is required for state licensure in audiology.</p>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Specific Major Requirements</p>
			<ul>
				<li class="bullet-1">55 to 56 hours: SLPA 150, SLPA 250, SLPA 251, SLPA 271, SLPA 397A (1 hr); SLPA 421, SLPA 441, SLPA 452, SLPA 455, SLPA 456, SLPA 461, SLPA 461L, SLPA 464, SLPA 472; STAT 218, SPED 400 and SLPA 454; biological sciences anatomy (5 hr) or human physiology (4 hr) and a physical science (3 hr min)</li>
			</ul>
			<p class="content-box-h-1" xml:lang='en-us'>ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>Grade Rules </p>
			<p class="title-2" xml:lang='en-us'>Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Six or less Pass/No Pass credit hours may be accepted in major area course work.</p>
			<p class="title-1" xml:lang='en-us'>GPA Requirements</p>
			<p class="basic-text" xml:lang='en-us'>Need overall minimum major GPA of B/3.0.</p>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
