<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Statistics Minor (CASNR) 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="statistics-minor-casnr-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Statistics Minor (CASNR)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Statistics Minor (CASNR)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 14-15</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Walt Stroup, Erin Blankenship, Steve Kachman</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Steve Kachman,</span><span class="generated-style"> 340 Hardin Hall</span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Eskridge, Kachman, Ladunga, Marx, McCutcheon, Parkhurst, Stroup, Zhang</span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bilder, Blankenship</span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Green, Hanford, Roy, Soulakova, Wang</span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Statistics is the science of data collection, classification, analysis and interpretation. It has evolved into a core discipline for a well-rounded liberal arts education, and is of central importance to nearly all of the biological, physical and social sciences. The Department of Statistics offers introductory courses to acquaint students from all disciplines with the essential elements of statistical thinking. STAT 218 or STAT 380 can be taken to satisfy ACE Outcome 3.</span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The department offers a minor in statistics, which is a useful complement for many students. In addition, the minor provides background beneficial for graduate study in statistics. Career opportunities for statisticians with masters and doctoral degrees abound in industry, government and education. Employers include pharmaceutical, health and medical organizations, quality improvement in manufacturing and service, marketing and opinion research, credit and security risk analysis, agribusiness, various governmental agencies including Environmental Protection, Food and Drug Administration, Departments of Census, Energy, Agriculture, and Homeland Security, and emerging fields ranging from bioinformatics to statistical applications in sports.</span></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Track 1: </span><span class="generated-style">STAT 462 and STAT 463, and at least 6 hours from the following: STAT 318, STAT 380, STAT 412, STAT 414, STAT 450, STAT 494 or STAT 496</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Track 2: </span><span class="generated-style">STAT 218 and STAT 318, and at least 9 hours from the following: STAT 412, STAT 414, STAT 450, STAT 462, STAT 463, STAT 494 or STAT 496</span></p>
<ul>
<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style"> Alternative classes may be substituted if approved by the Department of Statistics curriculum committee. </span></li>
<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Classes taken for a minor in statistics may not be taken Pass/No Pass.</span></li>
<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">If a student receives a grade lower than “C” in a course, the course may not be used to satisfy the statistics minor requirement.</span></li>
</ul>
<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER: </span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span><span class="generated-style"> The following advanced degrees are offered: master of science and doctor of philosophy in statistics. For details, see the Graduate Studies Bulletin at http://bulletin.unl.edu/.</span></p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>