<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Textiles, Merchandising &amp; Fashion Design/Communications 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="textiles-merchandising-fashion-design-communications-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Textiles, Merchandising &amp; Fashion Design/Communications</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Textiles, Merchandising &amp; Fashion Design/Communications</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Judy Hofeldt</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">This specialization is a joint program between the Department of Textiles, Merchandising and Fashion Design and the College of Journalism and Mass Communications. The student combines a background in textiles including course work in textile science, textile and apparel design and merchandising, with the advertising area of journalism.</p>
<p class="title-1"><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-sec-4"></span><span class="requirement-sec-4"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-2">Degree at a Glance</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2" data-cid="2" data-userid="62" data-username="Joyce Richter" data-time="1395866729537">ACE Requirements 31-32</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 1. ADPR 283 <span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Course)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 2. TMFD 144 <span class="requirement-ital">(Introductory Courses)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 3. STAT 218 or EDPS 459 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 4. CHEM 105 or CHEM 109 or CHEM 113 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 5. TMFD 407 <span class="requirement-ital">(Common Completion Course)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 6. PSYC 181 or SOCI 101 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3-4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 7. AHIS 101 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Course)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 8. ECON 200 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Course)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 9. TMFD 123 <span class="requirement-ital">(Introductory Course)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 10. TMFD 412 <span class="requirement-ital">(Common Completion Course)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Introductory &amp; Common Completion Courses 29</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 101 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 112 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 206, TMFD 212, TMFD 213, TMFD 405, TMFD 406, TMFD 422 18</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 104, TMFD 145, TMFD 146 7</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 498 or TMFD 492 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Supporting Courses 7-9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">AHIS 102 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">LIBR 110 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">MATH 101 or MATH 104 or MATH 106 3-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Professional TMFD/Communications Courses 45</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 312, TMFD 314, TMFD 408 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">Select 3 hrs from the following: 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">TMFD 216, TMFD 225, TMFD 313, TMFD 325, TMFD 410, TMFD 425, TMFD 428, TMFD 492, TMFD 498</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ADPR 251 &amp; ADPR 489 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JOMC 101, JOMC 486, JOMC 487 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JOMC 160, JOMC 161 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">Select any 12 hours from journalism courses 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Electives 5-8</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 120</p>
<p class="title-1">ACE Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p>Grade Rules</p>
<p>Pass/No Pass</p>
<p>No course in the Textiles, Merchandising and Fashion Design Minor can be taken Pass/No Pass.</p>
<p class="title-1">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">Please note the following department specific requirements:</p>
<p>1. No required course work in the textiles, merchandising and fashion design department can be taken Pass/No Pass by textiles, merchandising and fashion design majors. Should a student have earned a P in one of the courses prior to starting the option, the P will be reviewed.</p>
<p>2. Substitution and waiver forms must be processed prior to the semester of graduation and must be processed prior to enrolling in the substituted course. All course prerequisites must be met prior to enrollment.</p>
<p>3. All students are required to participate in either an internship or study tour experience, or both, during their program. Internships are qualified by a minimum GPA requirement. Textiles, merchandising and fashion design majors have the opportunity to study abroad at institutions such as the American Intercontinental University in London, for both the summer and semester education abroad programs.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="title-2">Textiles, Merchandising and Fashion Design Minor – 15 hours</p>
<p class="basic-text">(This minor is not an option for marketing majors.)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 123 Clothing &amp; Human Behavior (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 121 Design Essentials (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 206 Textiles (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 213 Merchandising I: Textile &amp; Apparel Industry (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 3 hours from the following:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 144 Introduction to Design Theory and Criticism (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 405 Advanced Textiles (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 407 History of Costume (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 408 History of Textiles (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 422 International Textile &amp; Apparel Sourcing (3 cr)</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>