<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Textile &amp; Apparel Design 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="textile-apparel-design-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Textile &amp; Apparel Design</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Textile &amp; Apparel Design</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Judy Hofeldt</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Textile and apparel design emphasizes creative problem solving and the development of technical skills related to apparel and textile design and theory, apparel pattern making, computer-aided design, and printing and dyeing techniques. Professional support is provided in business and in art and art history, theatre arts and dance, or history. The program is planned for students with professional interest in textile and apparel design, product development, and fiber arts.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-2">Degree at a Glance</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Requirements 31-32</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 1. ENGL 101 or ENGL 150 or ENGL 151 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 2. TMFD 144 <span class="requirement-ital">(Introductory Courses)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 3. STAT 218 or EDPS 459 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 4. CHEM 105 or CHEM 109 or CHEM 113 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 5. TMFD 407 <span class="requirement-ital">(Common Completion Course)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 6. PSYC 181 or SOCI 101 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3-4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 7. AHIS 101 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Course)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 8. ECON 200 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Course)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 9. TMFD 123 <span class="requirement-ital">(Introductory Course)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 10. TMFD 412 <span class="requirement-ital">(Common Completion Course)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Introductory &amp; Common Completion Courses 34</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 101 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 206, TMFD 212, TMFD 213, TMFD 216, TMFD 225 (3 hrs ea) 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 104, TMFD 145, TMFD 146 7</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 405, TMFD 406, TMFD 422 (3 hrs ea) 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 498 or TMFD 492 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Supporting Courses 22-24</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACCT 200 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AHIS 102 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">LIBR 110 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 101 or MATH 104 or MATH 106 3-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from the following:</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">JGEN 120 or JGEN 200 or JGEN 220 or COMM 286</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select three courses from the following</span>: 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">Art, art history, dance, theatre arts or photo journalism or JGEN 184, JOUR 404, ENTR 321 or ENTR 422, MNGT 321 or MNGT 422, appropriate advanced MATH &amp; STAT courses (see adviser)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Professional Textile and Apparel Design Courses 22</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 112 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 312, TMFD 313, TMFD 403, TMFD 408, TMFD 416, TMFD 471 (3 hrs ea) 18</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 3 hrs from the following:</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">TMFD 325, TMFD 410 or TMFD 425 or TMFD 472 </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Electives 8-11</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 120</p>
<p class="title-1">ACE Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
<p class="title-1">Minor Options</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may receive a minor in hospitality, restaurant and tourism management (19 hrs) or a business minor (18 hrs). See adviser.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</p>
<p class="header-paragraph-title">Textile and apparel design majors must take the following classes in sequence:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 212 Product Development II: Apparel Analysis &amp; Development</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 312 Product Development III: Fashion Analysis &amp; Presentation</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 412 Product Development IV: Trend Analysis &amp; Product Conceptualization</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 216 Apparel Design by Flat Pattern</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 403 Apparel Design by Draping</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 416 Apparel Design for Industry</p>
<p class="title-1">Pass/No Pass Option</p>
<p class="basic-text">No required course work in the textiles, merchandising and fashion design department can be taken Pass/No Pass by textiles, merchandising and fashion design majors. Should a student have earned a P in one of the courses prior to starting the option, the P will be reviewed.</p>
<p class="title-1">Substitution and Wavier Forms</p>
<p class="basic-text">Substitution and waiver forms must be processed prior to the semester of graduation and must be processed prior to enrolling in the substituted course. All course prerequisites must be met prior to enrollment.</p>
<p class="title-1">Internship or Study Tour Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">All students are required to participate in either an internship or study tour experience, or both, during their program. Internships are qualified by a minimum GPA requirement. Textiles, merchandising and fashion design majors have the opportunity to study abroad at institutions such as the American Intercontinental University in London, for both the summer and semester education abroad programs.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>