<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Textile Science 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="textile-science-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Textile Science</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Textile Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Judy Hofeldt</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">The textile science option emphasizes textiles and biofibers, textile production, and issues concerning the global textile industry. Professional support in related sciences and business is required. The program is planned for students interested in sales, research, or management in the textile industry. It is also recommended for students who plan to go on to graduate school in either textiles or related sciences. <span class="basic-text-bold">Students are eligible to receive a minor in chemistry from the UNL College of Arts and Sciences.</span></p>
<p class="title-1"><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-2">Degree at a Glance</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Requirements 31-32</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 1. ENGL 101 or ENGL 150 or ENGL 151 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 2. TMFD 144 (Introductory  Course) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 3. STAT 218 or EDPS 459 (Supporting Course) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 4. CHEM 109 or CHEM 113 (Supporting Course) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 5. TMFD 407 (Common Completion Course) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 6. PSYC 181 or SOCI 101 (Supporting Course) 3-4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 7. AHIS 101 (Supporting Course) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 8. ECON 200 (Supporting Course) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 9. TMFD 123 (Introductory Course) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 10. TMFD 412 (Common Completion Course) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Introductory &amp; Common Completion Courses 29</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 101 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 112 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 104, TMFD 145, TMFD 146 7</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 206, TMFD 212, TMFD 213 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 405, TMFD 422, TMFD 410 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 498 or TMFD 492 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Supporting Courses 41-44</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">AHIS 102 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CHEM 110 (4 hrs) or CHEM 114 (3 hrs) 3-4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CHEM 221 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CHEM 251 (3 hrs) &amp; CHEM 253 (1 hr) or CHEM 255 (3 hrs) &amp; CHEM 257 (1 hr) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CHEM 252 (3 hrs) &amp; CHEM 254 (1 hr) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CHEM 261 (3 hrs) &amp; CHEM 263 (2 hrs) 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CHEM 262 (3 hrs) &amp; CHEM 264 (2 hrs) 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">LIBR 110 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">MATH 101 or MATH 104 or MATH 106 3-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from the following:</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">JGEN 120, JGEN 200, JGEN 220, COMM 286</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 6 hrs from any of the following areas:</span> 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">ACCT, BLAW, CHEM, CSCE, ECON, ENTR, FINA, MATH, MNGT, MRKT, PHYS</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Professional Textile Courses 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 406, TMFD 428, TMFD 499 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 6 hrs from the following:</span> 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">TMFD 216, TMFD 225, TMFD 313, TMFD 325, TMFD 408, TMFD 425, TMFD 492, TMFD 498</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Electives 0-4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 120</p>
<p class="title-1">ACE Requirements</p>
<p class="MsoNormal basic-text">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
<p class="MsoNormal title-1">Minor Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may receive a minor in Chemistry (27 hrs), Hospitality, Restaurant and Tourism Management (19 hrs) or a Business minor (18 hrs). Minors may also be taken in Global Studies or in Women’s and Gender Studies. The student should see their adviser for more information.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p>Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</p>
<p>Please note the following department specific requirements:</p>
<p>1. No required course work in the textiles, merchandising and fashion design department can be taken Pass/No Pass by textiles, merchandising and fashion design majors. Should a student have earned a P in one of the courses prior to starting the option, the P will be reviewed.</p>
<p>2. Substitution and waiver forms must be processed prior to the semester of graduation and must be processed prior to enrolling in the substituted course. All course prerequisites must be met prior to enrollment.</p>
<p>3. All students are required to participate in either an internship or study tour experience, or both, during their program. Internships are qualified by a minimum GPA requirement. Textiles, merchandising and fashion design majors have the opportunity to study abroad at institutions such as the American Intercontinental University in London, for both the summer and semestereducation abroadprograms.</p>

            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>