<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Theatre-Performance 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="theatre-performance-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Theatre-Performance</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Fine &amp; Performing Arts</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Theatre-Performance</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Harris Smith</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Paul Steger,</span> 215 Temple Building</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Grange, O'Connor, V. Smith, Steger</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Brown, Endacott, H. Smith, Stauffer, Teo-Gooding</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Borden, Kolbe, Shoemaker, Veneziano</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> Patterson</p>
<p class="basic-text">This program offers comprehensive actor training through a core of eight different acting courses, which move from basic process work to detailed exploration of specific technical and stylistic demands. The emphasis also offers up to four semesters each of voice and speech training and movement training.</p>
<p class="title-2">Degree at a Glance</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">ACE Requirements 30</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Languages: Classical and Modern 0-6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from the list of “Approved Courses” found under “College Degree Requirements.”</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Library 110 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Theatre Core Requirements 39</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Performance Emphasis Requirements 22</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Electives 22-28</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours Required for Graduation 120</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Core Requirements</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">BA Core Requirements 39</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">THEA 112G Introduction to Theatre 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">THEA 114 Basic Acting Techniques I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">THEA 115 Basic Acting Techniques II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">THEA 201 Technical Theatre Practice 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">THEA 202 Play Direction I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">THEA 204 Stage Makeup 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">THEA 223 Intermediate Acting I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">THEA 234 Scripts in Performance 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">THEA 253 Voice Production for the Stage 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">THEA 255 Stage Movement I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">THEA 335 History of Theatre I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">THEA 336 History of Theatre II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">THEA 472 Theatre Perspectives 3</p>
<p class="title-2">Emphasis Requirements</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Performance Emphasis Requirements 22</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">THEA 224 Intermediate Acting II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">THEA 254 Stage Diction &amp; Dialects 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">THEA 256 Stage Movement II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">THEA 401 Advanced Acting 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">THEA 408 Advanced Projects in Acting &amp;/or Directing 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from:</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">THEA 120 Principles of Design for Theatre &amp; Film (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">THEA 210 Stage Lighting I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">THEA 412 Scene Design I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">THEA 418 Costume Design I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">THEA 450 Sound Design I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="title-2">Minor Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">Minors are allowed, but not required, with the theatre–performance emphasis.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Theatre majors may elect to specialize in musical theatre through the minor in musical theatre. This option is open only to students with a major in theatre or music. To qualify for the required voice lessons, students must audition for the Glenn Korff School of Music voice faculty for acceptance as a musical theatre minor.</p>
<p class="title-3">Plan A minor in Musical Theatre (theatre majors) – 25 credits</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 131 Keyboard Skills I 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 132 Keyboard Skills II 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 160 Music as Art, Discipline, &amp; Profession 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 165 Musicianship I 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUSC 165A Musicianship I Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MUOP 455 Musical Theatre Techniques 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Applied voice lessons (MUAP 101, MUAP 201) 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Choral Ensembles 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Productions 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Dance (movement) courses 5</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Prerequisite Requirements/Advancement in Major</p>
<p class="basic-text">Review and screening for continuation in this emphasis are done when students are enrolled in THEA 223 Intermediate Acting I (typically their third semester as theatre majors). The review includes an interview, an audition, and an analysis of the overall academic and artistic record; all of which are used to determine potential for success throughout the course of study. Approved students are permitted to enroll in THEA 224 Intermediate Acting II and in subsequent required performance emphasis courses.</p>
<ul>
<li>Students in the Theatre-Performance emphasis are expected to maintain a 2.5 cumulative GPA throughout their career. Transcripts will be reviewed periodically to ensure satisfactory progress. Failure to maintain a 2.5 GPA may result in dismissal from the program.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<ul>
<li>All courses taken for major requirements must be for letter grade, unless the course is only offered Pass/No Pass.</li>
<li>Minimum grade for all major requirements is C.</li>
</ul>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>
<p class="title-1">Major/Department Admission</p>
<p class="basic-text">Both new and transfer students wishing to complete the performance emphasis must audition for the program.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>