<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Anthropology-11</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="anthropology-11">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Anthropology</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Anthropology</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Martha McCollough</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Ray Hames</span><span class="generated-style">, 810 Oldfather Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bleed, Draper, Hames</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Athanassopoulos, Awakuni-Swetland, McCollough, Wandsnider, Willis</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Osborne</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturer:</span><span class="generated-style"> Beyene</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Undergraduate Advisor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Dr. Martha McCollough, 472-2441, mmccollough1@unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Courses in anthropology are designed to acquaint the student with the range of human behavior and emphasize archaeology, physical anthropology, cultural anthropology, applied anthropology, and Omaha language and culture.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department of Anthropology participates in the programs in African American and African Studies, Asian Studies, Ethnic Studies, Environmental Studies, Great Plains Studies, International Studies, Latino and Latin American Studies, Native American Studies, and Women’s and Gender Studies.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Recommendations.</span><span class="generated-style"> Because of the broad and interdisciplinary nature of anthropology, we recommend that majors select additional courses outside the department to enhance their appreciation of and improve their skills in related disciplines. The student’s adviser will make specific course recommendations in keeping with individual needs and interests.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span><span class="generated-style"> The Department of Anthropology offers graduate work leading to the master of arts degree. A description of the program appears in the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Graduate Advisor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Dr. Effie Athanassopoulos, 472-0172, eathanassopoulos1@unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">30 hours of anthropology including ANTH 212, ANTH 232, ANTH 242/ANTH 242L; ANTH 110 may not be included in the 30 hours required for the major. Fieldwork is recommended. Only 6 credits total of ANTH 290 and ANTH 490 may count toward the major. Only 3 credits of ANTH 291 or ANTH 491 may count toward the major. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its program, majors will be required in their senior year:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. To complete an oral examination which focuses on the breadth of the field as well as on the student’s field of specialization.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. To complete a written exit survey, submitted anonymously.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The undergraduate adviser will inform students of the scheduling and format of assessment activities. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Results of participation in these assessment activities will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Level Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">At least 12 hours in courses numbered in the 300- and 400-series. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Requires 18 hours of anthropology including ANTH 110; at least one of the 200-level core courses in anthropology (ANTH 212 Introduction to Cultural Anthropology, ANTH 232 Introduction to Archaeology, or ANTH 242 Introduction to Physical Anthropology); and, at least one 300- or 400-level anthropology course. Up to 6 hours of field study (ANTH 290, ANTH 291, ANTH 490, ANTH 491) and 6 hours of advanced Native language (ANTH 204, ANTH 205, ANTH 210) courses may apply. Excluded courses: ANTH 104, ANTH 105, ANTH 130.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
