<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Biological Systems Engineering</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="biological-systems-engineering">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Biological Systems Engineering</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Biological Systems Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Biological Systems Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 134</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISERS:</span><span class="generated-style"> Dennis Schulte, David Jones, Curtis Weller, Dean Eisenhauer, Gregory Bashford, Angela Pannier, Jeyamkondan Subbiah, George Meyer</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Department of Biological Systems Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Head: Ronald E. Yoder</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Dickey, Dvorak, Edwards, Eisenhauer, Hanna, Hoy, Jones, Koelsch, Martin, Meyer, Schinstock, Schulte, Shelton, Smith, Weller, Yang</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bashford, Franti, Irmak, Kocher, Kranz, Stowell, Subbiah, Woldt, Yonts</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Keshwani, Liska, Othman, Pannier, vanDonk</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Web Site: </span><span class="generated-style">http://bsen.unl.edu/</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Biological systems engineering (BSEN) is one of two engineering degree programs offered through the Department of Biological Systems Engineering. The program allows students to emphasize their engineering course work in one of three areas; biomedical, food and bioproducts, or water and environment. A biological systems engineer could work on systems to micropropagate tissue culture, develop biomaterials and biofibers, design equipment and processes for producing foods and biofuels, or design devices for performing minimally invasive surgery. Still another could be responsible for developing biological sensors and imaging devices for detecting diseases and irregularities in humans, for measuring plant and animal stress, or for controlling the environment of greenhouses and animal facilities. Biological systems engineers could also be involved in resolving environmental issues associated with waste management, water quality and sustainable energy production. Job opportunities for graduates are available in industry, public agencies, consulting, and private practice whereas some head to graduate or professional school.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">After graduation, BSEN alumni will share the attribute of improving the organization for which they work, and the community and country in which they live. They will do this whether they are involved in biomedical engineering, environmental or water resources engineering, food or bioproducts engineering, or other professional endeavors such as business, law or medicine. In doing so, they will:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">provide innovative and effective solutions to problems in a variety of work environments through the use of their unique background in biological systems engineering and the biological sciences;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">look beyond components in isolation thereby providing holistic solutions to complex issues involving (for example) interactions at the ecosystem, organism, organ, cellular or subcellular level;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">think logically using appropriate elements of mathematics, science, and engineering to develop, manage, and interpret data, to correctly interpret new research findings, and to design new systems for the benefit of society;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">successfully integrate technical knowledge with organizational, communication, and interpersonal skills to lead and work effectively in teams and to articulate the role of engineering decisions in the workplace, community and world;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">responsibly address issues such as health and safety, personal and professional ethics, cultural diversity, as well as the social, environmental, and global impacts of their work; and</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">continue their personal growth, professional development, and professional and community service through various opportunities provided by institutions, professional organizations and other venues.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department of Biological Systems Engineering is located in L. W. Chase Hall on East Campus. BSEN students participate in classes and laboratories on both the East and City Campuses. Courses in biomaterials, plant and animal environment, irrigation, soil conservation, food and bioproduct processing, electronics and imaging, and natural resources are offered on the East Campus. Basic courses in math, chemistry, physics, engineering sciences, computers, and electives in mechanical, civil, electrical, industrial, and chemical engineering are taken on the City Campus. Convenient bus transportation is available between campuses.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students benefit from small classes and personal acquaintances with faculty. In consultation with their adviser, students select electives that permit specialization in an emphasis area applicable to their career aspirations. Many students work part-time on departmental research projects, gaining valuable experience for later employment. Students also benefit from summer jobs, internships and co-op programs. These opportunities give students practical experience to learn about careers in engineering. Students also gain valuable experience through participation in professional organizations such as the American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers, the Soil and Water Resources Club, the Biomedical Engineering Society, the Nebraska Society of Professional Engineers and the Society for Women Engineers.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">First Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 100 Intro to Biological Systems Engineering &amp; Agricultural Engineering 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 113 Fundamental Chemistry I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Electives 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Second Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 112 Engineering in Agricultural &amp; Biological Systems 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 130 Computer-Aided Design 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 114 Fundamental Chemistry II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Third Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 102 Cell Structure &amp; Function 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 225 Engineering Properties of Biological Materials 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 261 &amp; CHEM 263 Organic Chemistry &amp; Lab 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 223 Engineering Statics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fourth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 321 &amp; BIOC 321L Elements of Biochemistry &amp; Lab </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOC 431 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 244 Thermodynamics of Living Systems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 373 Engineering Dynamics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Computer Programming Elective 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose from CSCE 155N, CSCE 251, CSCE 251K, or MIST 250.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Oral Communication Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose from ALEC 102; COMM 209, COMM 210, COMM 283, or COMM 286; FREN 304; GERM 303; JAPN 202; JGEN 300 or RUSS 304.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fifth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 103 Organismic Biology 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 310/MECH 310 Fluid Mechanics </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> CHME 332 Transport Operations I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 211 Elements of Electrical Engineering I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 321 Engineering Statistics &amp; Data Analysis </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> MATH 380 Statistics &amp; Applications 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BSEN Emphasis Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Sixth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 344 Biological &amp; Environmental Transport Processes 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BSEN Emphasis Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Engineering or Science Emphasis Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Organizational Skills Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose from a list of 40+ courses available from adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Seventh Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 460 Instrumentation &amp; Controls 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 470 Design I in Agricultural &amp; Biological Systems Engineering 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 206 Engineering Economy I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BSEN Emphasis Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Engineering or Science Emphasis Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Eighth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 480 Design II in Agricultural &amp; Biological Systems Engineering 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 400 Professional Ethics &amp; Social Responsibilities 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Biological Science Elective 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 203 is not acceptable; a minimum of two laboratory courses or two courses with laboratories is required within the 16 hours of biological sciences and biochemistry courses</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BSEN Emphasis Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Engineering Emphasis Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="requirement-bold">TOTAL CREDIT HOURS REQUIRED 134</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">An emphasis area requires a student to take 21 hours of engineering and science-based courses. A minimum of 15 hours must be selected from courses offered by the College of Engineering. Within the 15 hours, a minimum of 12 hours must be BSEN courses or engineering courses crosslisted with BSEN. Of the BSEN or BSEN crosslisted courses, one must be a 300-level course of a primary emphasis area, one must be a 300-level course of a secondary emphasis area and one must be a 400-level course of a primary emphasis area. Water and Environment emphasis requires both BSEN 326 and BSEN 350, Food and Bioproducts emphasis requires BSEN 303, and Biomedical emphasis requires BSEN 317 as primary emphasis area courses.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">BSEN Emphasis Courses</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Food and Bioproducts</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 303 Principles of Process Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 446 Unit Operations of Biological Processing</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Biomedical</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 317 Intro to Biomedical Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 414 Medical Imaging Systems</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 416 Intro to Biomaterials</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Water and Environment</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 326 Intro to Environmental Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 350 Soil &amp; Water Resources Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 453 Irrigation &amp; Drainage Systems Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 455 Nonpoint Source Pollution Control Engineering</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
