<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Broadcasting</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="broadcasting">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Broadcasting</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Journalism &amp; Mass Communications</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Broadcasting</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Journalism</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes–only for meteorology majors and environmental studies majors with a meteorology emphasis</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Michael Goff</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Hull (emeritus), Lee, Mayeux (emeritus), Renaud, Walklin</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Creighton, McCoy, Spann (emeritus)</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor and General Manager, KRNU-FM Radio:</span><span class="generated-style"> Alloway</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Christensen</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Journalism and Mass Communications has traditionally offered majors in both broadcasting and news-editorial journalism. Because of the changes in the journalism industries served by our students and graduates, however, we are in the process of combining those majors into one journalism major. This major will offer courses leading to a wide variety of careers in print, broadcasting and online journalism. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The broadcasting major offers courses leading to a wide variety of careers in the telecommunications industry. Building on a solid base of instruction in radio, television, and online journalism, the major has broadened its curriculum in response to advancing technology and new electronic media. Broadcasting offers courses in news gathering and dissemination, sports reporting, videography, sales, management, programming and other specializations including the use of audio and video on the Internet and the World Wide Web. Courses are designed to develop both a comprehensive understanding of theoretical principles and professional skills. Most courses involve extensive practical laboratory work in addition to classroom lectures and discussions.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">KRNU, a professionally managed FM radio station, is an integral part of the instructional program. With studios in Andersen Hall, KRNU operates year-round and serves an audience of potentially 250,000 persons in the Lincoln area, plus a global audience via the Internet. Student-produced programs aired on KRNU have won many awards in competition with other student groups as well as with commercial stations. Broadcasting students received a Bronze Oscar in the student documentary category for their 2003 production of “Cuba: An Illogical Temple.”</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students have also had success in the national Hearst competition, including the broadcast news national winner in 2006 and several students placing in the top five.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition, students may work and take classes in the studios of the Nebraska Educational Television Network, one of the premier ETV facilities in the nation.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students also produce television newscasts and entertainment programs, which are distributed throughout Lincoln via cable television. The broadcasting program operates two television studios in Andersen Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The broadcasting faculty enjoys an excellent rapport with the industry, and its members are actively involved in professional media organizations, frequently serving in leadership positions. Students are encouraged to further their professional goals through participation in student organizations such as the National Broadcasting Society, Alpha Epsilon Rho, the Society of Professional Journalists, the Radio-Television News Directors Association and other broadcasting entities.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Broadcasting faculty assist students in acquiring internships and professional work experience prior to graduation. Last year more than 100 media-related internships and professional part-time jobs were held by broadcasting majors. Graduates are working for media organizations throughout the nation, often in positions of middle and upper management.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students also are involved with ABC News on Campus. The college has a bureau, staffed year-round with four or five students at a time, which provides articles, photographs and video packages to ABC News in New York. Student work has appeared on Good Morning America and World News Tonight, as well as several of ABC’s Web sites.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students wishing to major in broadcasting should contact the college office in 147 Andersen Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The broadcasting major is 38 or 39 hours with 15 or 16 of the hours selected to develop emphasis in either news or production.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All </span><span class="basic-text-bold">broadcasting majors</span><span class="generated-style"> complete JOUR 101, JOUR 162, JOUR 163, JOUR 164, JOUR 165, JOUR 486, and JOUR 487 and 6 hours of electives from advertising, broadcasting or journalism.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Those who pursue a </span><span class="basic-text-bold">news emphasis</span><span class="generated-style"> also complete JOUR 202, JOUR 350 and BRDC 369, BRDC 370 and BRDC 372.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Those who pursue a </span><span class="basic-text-bold">production emphasis</span><span class="generated-style"> additionally complete BRDC 227, BRDC 228, BRDC 359, BRDC 360 and BRDC 362.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Students may complete two majors in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications by completing all requirements for each major; however, the second major in the college will not take the place of a concentration.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Three 12-hour concentrations or one 24-hour concentration and one 12-hour concentration. A specified minor may take the place of one 12-hour concentration. A major of 24 or more hours may take the place of a 24-hour concentration. </span><span class="basic-text-bold">Any of these options must be from outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</span><span class="generated-style"> The concentration requirement must be fulfilled with at least 36 hours from outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications. A 24-hour concentration could be satisfied by a major from another college. No grades below C will count toward a minor, or concentration. One of the three concentrations must be from a liberal arts department. See the degree audit for a list of the traditional liberal arts departments. Normally, concentrations are defined as a minimum of 12 hours taken from one department or a specified interdisciplinary program that does not have a designated minor. In each concentration, at least 6 hours must include courses numbered 200 or higher. The college additionally recognizes a 24-hour fine and performing arts concentration and a 12-hour business concentration.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Fine and Performing Arts Concentration</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications may complete a 24-hour interdisciplinary concentration in courses from the College of Fine and Performing Arts. This concentration would include classes in: 1) art and art history; 2) music; 3) theater and film; and 4) dance.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students would select courses from the following:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">A. One 3-hour course from each of the four areas 12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">B. 3 hours of skills courses </span><span class="requirement-ital">(performance or lessons)</span><span class="generated-style"> in one of the four areas 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">C. One 3-hour “capstone” course 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">D. Two 3-hour courses in one of the four areas 6</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Course options for students:</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">I. Art &amp; Art History</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">AHIS 101 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">AHIS 102 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism II (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">DRAW 101 Beginning Drawing (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CERM 131 Intro to Ceramics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">PHOT 161 Beginning Photography I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Art Studio 200-level courses: Prereq: Vis-Lit 140A,B &amp; 141A,B</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Art History 200-level courses: Prereq: Sophomore standing</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Art History 300-level courses: Prereq: AHIS 101 &amp; AHIS 102 </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">II. Theatre &amp; Film</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">THEA 112G Intro to Theatre (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">THEA 114 Basic Acting Techniques I (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">THEA 201 Technical Theatre Practice (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">THEA 234 Scripts in Performance (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">THEA 335 History of Theatre I (3 cr) Prereq: THEA 112G</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">THEA 336 History of Theatre II (3 cr) Prereq: THEA 112G</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">III. Music</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="requirement-underline">Academic Courses</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 275 Music in Film (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 276G The Music Experience (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 287 The History of Rock Music (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 387 History of American Jazz (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 389 Arts of the 20th Century: 1945-Present (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="requirement-underline">Ensembles</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 241 All-Collegiate Choir (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 243 Varsity Chorus (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 245 The University Singers (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 246 University Chorale (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 247 Symphony Orchestra (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 248A Wind Ensemble (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 248B Symphonic Band (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 248E Marching Band (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 249 Chamber Singers (1 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 251 Big Red Singers (1 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 253A Jazz Ensemble I (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 253B Jazz Ensemble II (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 253E Jazz Vocal Ensemble (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">IV. Dance</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">DANC 112 Modern Dance &amp; Ballet I (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">DANC 159 Intro to the History of Dance (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Business Concentration</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="basic-text-bold">OPTION 1 – 12 hours</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Preparing students to understand more the business side of advertising, public relations and the various media. 12 hours total.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Required:</span><span class="generated-style"> ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Required:</span><span class="generated-style"> Business for Non-Business Majors course when developed</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Also:</span><span class="generated-style"> 6 hours </span><span class="list-ital">(9 hours if Business for Non-business Majors course not available)</span><span class="generated-style"> from any of the following:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 341 Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 320 Principles of Management</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FINA 260 Personal Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FINA 361 Finance </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 365 Financial Institutions &amp; Markets</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 303 Intro to Money &amp; Banking</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 340 Intro to Urban-Regional Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 416 Statistics for Decision-Making </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 350 Marketing Information Systems</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 425 Retail Management</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT </span><span class="list-ital">(any marketing class although above are particularly useful)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ENTR </span><span class="list-ital">(any entrepreneurship class including ENTR 121)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">AECN 225 Agribusiness Entrepreneurship in Food Products Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">AECN 325 Marketing of Agricultural Commodities</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">AECN 471 Agricultural Marketing &amp; Product Development I</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="faculty-list-bold">OPTION 2 – 15 hours</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Preparing students to be business journalists or to do financial public relations. 15 hours total. </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Required:</span><span class="generated-style"> 3-hr capstone, JOUR 491 Business Reporting &amp; Writing </span><span class="list-ital">(or Business &amp; Economic Journalism)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Required:</span><span class="generated-style"> Business for Non-Business Majors course when developed</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Also:</span><span class="generated-style"> 9 hours </span><span class="list-ital">(12 hours if Business for Non-Business Majors course not available)</span><span class="generated-style"> from at least two different departments:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">*ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 320 Principles of Management</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">*ECON 365 Financial Institutions &amp; Markets</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 371 Elements of Public Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FINA 363 Investment Principles</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FINA 260 Personal Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FINA 361 Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ENTR 121 Intro to Entrepreneurial Management</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">AECN 141 Intro to Economics of Agriculture</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">AECN 225 Agribusiness Entrepreneurship in Food Products Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">AECN 265 Resources &amp; Environmental Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">AECN 325 Marketing of Agricultural Commodities</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">AECN 346 World Food Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">AECN 367 Agricultural Development in Developing Countries</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">AECN 376 Rural Community Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">AECN 420 International Food &amp; Agricultural Trade</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">AECN 465 Resource &amp; Environmental Economics II</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">AECN 452 Agricultural Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">AECN 471 Agricultural Marketing &amp; Product Development I</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">AECN 472 Agricultural Marketing &amp; Product Development II</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">* Highly recommended</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Secondary options for ECON: </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 303 Intro to Money and Banking</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 340 Intro to Urban-Regional Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 381 Intro to Labor Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 403 Money &amp; the Financial System</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 404 Current Issues </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 409 Applied Public Policy Analysis</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 416 Statistics for Decision-Making </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 417 Econometrics</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 419 Topics in Applied Research</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 457 19th Century U.S. Economic History</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 458 20th Century U.S. Economic History</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 481 Economics of the Labor Market</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 482 Labor in the National Economy</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 485 Government &amp; Labor </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A broadcasting minor (19 hours) is available only for meteorology majors and environmental studies majors with a meteorology emphasis. These students complete the following required 13 hours: JOUR 163, JOUR 165; BRDC 369, BRDC 370, and BRDC 372.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students also complete 6 elective hours chosen from JOUR 101, JOUR 202 or JOUR 350.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students completing the BRDC minor are not required to complete prerequisite courses shown in the descriptions of the courses above. Students from the College of Arts and Sciences will need to check with their home college to determine whether this minor meets Arts and Sciences’ requirements for a minor.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
