<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Business Administration</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="business-administration">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Business Administration</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 hours for degree (21 hours for the major) </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.5 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes–for non business students only</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> D’vee Buss</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The business administration major is designed for students who wish to obtain a broad education in business administration rather than specializing in a specific area within the College. Under this option, students may choose courses from any of the departments within the College in any combination. For the student who has an educational goal that bridges two or more areas of business, the general business administration major permits the design of a tailor-made program to fit that goal.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Many organizations seek generalists rather than specialists when hiring employees. Some employers feel that in today’s world of rapid change, individuals who have a broad educational background are more adaptive to this change and are better suited to a variety of roles within the organization.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Major/Department Admission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University Admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 21 hours of course work for the major.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">As noted in the College Degree Requirements section, all course work for the major must be taken for a grade.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">No departmental 399/499 courses may count toward the business administration major </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for students interested in pursuing the bachelor of science degree with a major in business administration will complete 21 hours of 300/400-level business course work for the Business Core Advanced-Major (BCA-M) to be selected from course work offered by:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Accounting</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Management </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">As part of the 21 hour requirement:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Course work must be from the 300/400-level.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A MINIMUM of three departments must be represented.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A MINIMUM of 9 hours must be taken at the 400 level.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A MAXIMUM of 9 hours from one department may count toward the major.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">NBR 6–ACE 9 – ECON 321; MNGT 365, MNGT 428 can be double counted to fulfill NBR 6–ACE 9 </span><span class="basic-text-bold">and</span><span class="generated-style"> course work for the major.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ECON 321 or MNGT 428 may also be counted for the IBCR</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">In any option where double counting is permitted, only 3 hours of credit are used; student must still meet the 120 hour requirement for the degree.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">In any option where double counting is permitted for NBR requirements and the major, course work cannot, in turn, be used for any minor.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Enrollment in any upper-level course work offered by the departments requires completion of appropriate prerequisites. Refer to course descriptions for specific course prerequisites.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">C- and D Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College grade rules.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College Pass/No Pass limits.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College GPA requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Administration Minor – for Non Business Students Only</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style"> The College of Business Administration has joined with the College of Arts and Sciences, the College of Engineering, and the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts to offer a minor in general business to NON BUSINESS STUDENTS ONLY to provide these students a general business background. Students who minor in general business and are accepted into a masters program offered through the College of Business Administration will find they are well prepared to enter the masters program. Students in colleges other than those noted above should check with their college about the availability of the business minor for that specific college. The requirements remain the same.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Pass/No Pass.</span><span class="generated-style"> All course work for the minor (except BSAD 150) must be taken for a grade.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">GPA.</span><span class="generated-style"> Please note: “most” course work for the minor requires a 2.5 cumulative GPA.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Prerequisites. </span><span class="generated-style">ARE enforced and there are no exceptions or waivers of this policy.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Non-Business Course Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Complete these two courses early on as they are prerequisites for most other courses for the minor</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">MATH 104 Calculus for Managerial &amp; Social Sciences (3 hrs) </span><span class="basic-text-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> higher level calculus (MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 208)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">BSAD 150 Business Computer Applications (1 hr not applicable to degree)</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Business Foundation Course Requirements</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 201 &amp; ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting I &amp; II (3 hrs ea) </span><span class="basic-text-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ACCT 306 Survey of Accounting (4 hrs) </span><span class="list-ital">(Must have approval to take ACCT 306.)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ECON 211 &amp; ECON 212 Principles of Macro &amp; Microeconomics (3 hrs each)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ECON 215 Statistics </span><span class="basic-text-ital">(See prerequisites to enroll.) </span><span class="generated-style">(3 hrs)</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Business Intermediate Course Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Most of the following courses require completion of the prerequisites listed above; refer to specific course descriptions for restrictions on enrollment:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">FINA 361 Finance (3 hrs)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 341 Marketing (3 hrs)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-ital">Select one from the following: </span><span class="generated-style">(3 hrs)</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="requirement-sec-4"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 350/MIST 350 Intro to Management Information Systems</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-4"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 320 Principles of Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-4"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 331 Operations &amp; Supply Chain Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-4"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 360 Managing Behavior in Organizations</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">300/400-level business course (3 hrs)</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total for the Minor (28-32 hrs) </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Any exceptions or alternative courses for substitutions to these requirements, must be submitted in writing to the Academic Planning Committee of the College for acceptance. See someone in CBA 114 for filing the appropriate appeal paperwork.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All students enrolling in CBA courses are required to meet the prerequisites listed for each course, including any specific grade or GPA requirement, to include junior standing, as well as expected completion of the BCF and BCI for enrollment in most 300 or 400-level business courses. This includes the required course work information systems, communications, mathematics and statistics, accounting, and economics requirements as well as marketing, finance, production, MIS, human resources, and business law prior to enrolling in course work for their major.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
