<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Chemical Engineering</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="chemical-engineering">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Chemical Engineering</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Chemical Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 135</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Dr. James Hendrix </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The mission of the University of Nebraska–Lincoln chemical and biomolecular engineering program is to provide qualified students with a foundation in engineering sciences and engineering design methods to prepare them for successful professional careers and to contribute to the needs of society.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In pursuit of the program’s mission, the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering has established the Educational Objectives given below:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Educate students in the principles and methods essential to chemical and biomolecular engineering consistent with the curricular requirements of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Broaden perspectives of students regarding social issues and responsibilities, ethics and professionalism.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Graduate BS chemical engineers recognized for excellence and trained to successfully compete for positions in local, state, and national industry, and enter high quality graduate programs throughout the country.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Create and provide access to knowledge that is supportive of the needs of chemical and biomolecular engineering.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Foster an intrinsic curiosity for life-long learning</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Respond to the technical needs for economic development and diversification in the state and region.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering offers a course of study designed for students who plan careers in a wide variety of industries, ranging from the chemical and process industries to biotechnology, electronics, and the environment. Students receive training in the basic subjects of mathematics, English, and physics in common with other students in engineering, but in addition receive extensive training in chemistry. In various courses the emphasis is placed on the fundamental principles of fluid mechanics, heat transfer, mass transfer, separation processes, thermodynamics, kinetics, and process dynamics, as well as process economics and design of chemical processes.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The instructional laboratories provide opportunities for students to operate experimental equipment, to test the theories and correlations developed in the classroom, and to design their own experimental equipment for the solution of special problems.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Graduates are qualified to undertake work in research, design, development, production, maintenance, and technical sales in a wide variety of industries including chemicals, petroleum, petrochemicals, rubber, plastics, agricultural chemicals, food, biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, paper, fabrics, aircraft, automotive, electronics, energy conversion, and environmental pollution prevention and control.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering is located in Othmer Hall. A state-of-the-art unit operations laboratory, used to give hands-on chemical process experience, is located there. Laboratory equipment is provided for the study of fluid mechanics, heat transfer, mass transfer, staged operations, process control, thermodynamics, reaction kinetics, and polymerization. The department operates its own microcomputer facility. Additional research equipment is available for independent and graduate study in several areas.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Any student in the chemical and biomolecular engineering program whose grade point average in required chemical and biomolecular engineering courses is less than 2.4 will be admitted to the required courses of the following year only with the special permission of the department.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">First Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 113 Fundamental Chemistry I* 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 113 Intro to Chemical Engineering I 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Electives 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Second Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 114 Fundamental Chemistry II* 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 116 Quantitative Chemistry Lab* 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 114 Intro to Chemical Engineering II 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Third Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 261 Organic Chemistry 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 263A Organic Chemistry Lab 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 202 Mass &amp; Energy Balances 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 223 Engineering Statics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Fourth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 262 Organic Chemistry 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 264A Organic Chemistry Lab 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 223 Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 155N Computer Science I: Engineering &amp; Science Focus 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JGEN 200 Technical Communications I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Fifth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Advanced Chemistry 3-4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: CHEM 421, CHEM 431, CHEM 441, CHEM 471, or CHEM 481</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 323 Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 331 Equilibrium Stage Operations 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 332 Transport Operations I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Electives 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15-16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Sixth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 312 Chemical Engineering Computation 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 330 Chemical Engineering Lab I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 333 Transport Operations II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 211 Elements of Electrical Engineering I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Oral Communication Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose from ALEC 102, JGEN 300, or COMM 286 (SLO 2).</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Seventh Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 442 Chemical Reactor Engineering &amp; Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 452 Chemical Engineering Processing Economics &amp; Optimization 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 462 Automatic Process Control 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Technical Electives 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">The 12 hours of technical electives must include at least 3 credit hours of engineering science. All must be approved by the adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Eighth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 430 Chemical Engineering Lab II 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 453 Chemical Engineering Process Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 460 Automatic Process Control Lab 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 400 Professional Ethics &amp; Social Responsibility 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Technical Electives 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">The 12 hours of technical electives must include at least 3 credit hours of engineering science. All must be approved by the adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total Credit Hours Required 133-134</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">* The sequence CHEM 109, CHEM 110, CHEM 221 is an acceptable alternative to CHEM 113, CHEM 114, CHEM 116. However, 3 of the 12 credits of the former are not applicable to the degree and there may be scheduling problems. The student’s adviser should be consulted.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Special emphasis options available in the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering include:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">biotechnology/bioengineering</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">environmental engineering</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">materials engineering</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">mathematics and statistics</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Technical Electives</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The purpose of technical electives is to provide the student with an opportunity to gain new knowledge in an area of engineering or science beyond the basic undergraduate chemical engineering program. The technical electives may be in engineering design, engineering science, physical science, life science, and/or math. </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A minimum of 12 credit hours of technical electives are required. This must include at least 3 credit hours of engineering science.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All technical electives must be approved by a departmental academic adviser prior to registration for the course.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students are expected to complete their technical elective requirements during their junior and senior years with corresponding level of courses.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">With the pre-approval of the student’s academic adviser, a maximum of 3 credit hours of CHME 499 Senior Problems or CHME 499H Honors Thesis may be applied toward the technical electives requirement.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Introductory 100-level courses are not accepted as technical electives.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Advanced Placement (AP) high school classes are not allowed as technical electives. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Courses lacking a quantitative physical science foundation such as accounting, marketing, economics, or law are normally not acceptable as technical electives.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students are strongly encouraged to select their technical electives from the following list. Course(s) may be taken outside of this list with approval of a departmental academic adviser prior to registration for the course.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Biotechnology/Bioengineering</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 431/831 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism (BIOC 431, BIOS 431/831) (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 432/832 Gene Expression &amp; Replication (BIOC 432, BIOS 432/832) (2 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 486/886 Advanced Topics in Biophysical Chemistry (BIOC 486, BIOS 486/886) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 473/873 Biochemical Engineering (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 474/874 Advanced Biochemical Engineering (2-6 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 312 Fundamentals of Microbiology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 206 General Genetics (4 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Environmental Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 326 Intro to Environmental Engineering (BSEN 326) (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 327 Environmental Engineering Lab (BSEN 327) (1 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 421 Hazardous Waste Management &amp; Treatment (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 422/822 Pollution Prevention: Principles &amp; Practices (BSEN 422/822) (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 424 Solid Waste Management Engineering (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 455/855 or CIVE 455/855 Nonpoint Source Pollution Control Engineering (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 489 Air Pollution, Assessment &amp; Control (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENVR 489 Environmental Studies Seminar (1 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 421/821 Analytical Chemistry (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 423/823 Analytical Chemistry Lab (2 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Materials Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 482/882 Polymers (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">METL 360 Elements of Materials Science [ES] (4 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">METL 460 Mechanical Aspects of Materials (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">METL 462 X-Ray Diffraction (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">METL 469/869 Physical Materials Science (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">METL 471 Electron Microscopy of Materials (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">METL 473 Corrosion (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 422/822 Intro to Physics &amp; Chemistry of Solids (ELEC 422/822) (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 325 Mechanics of Elastic Bodies (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 380 Elements of Computer-aided Design (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics and Statistics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 314/814 Applied Linear Algebra (Matrix Theory) (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 322/822 Advanced Calculus (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 324/824 Intro to Partial Differential Equations (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">STAT 380 Statistics &amp; Applications (MATH 380) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style"> ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Any student in the chemical and biomolecular engineering program whose grade point average in required chemical and biomolecular engineering courses is less than 2.4 will need special permission of the department to be admitted to the required CHME courses the following year.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">University Honors Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For those students who have been admitted to the University Honors Program, junior- and senior-level chemical and biomolecular engineering classes are available as honors-designated classes (i.e., CHME xxxH) on a “contract basis” between the student and the instructor with approval by the department faculty. The requirement of an honors thesis research project is fulfilled by completion of a minimum of 3 credits of CHME 499H (Honors Thesis) under the direction of a department faculty member. Additional information on the University Honors Program, including admission requirements, can be found in the Honors Program section.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
