<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Chemistry</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="chemistry">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Chemistry</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Craig Eckhardt</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: James M. Takacs,</span><span class="generated-style"> 551 Hamilton Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Vice Chair:</span><span class="generated-style"> Mark Griep</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Berkowitz, DiMagno, Dussault, Eckhardt, Hage, Harbison, Langell, Li, Parkhurst, Rajca, Redepenning, Takacs, Zeng</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Du, Griep, Powers</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Cheung, Dodds, Guo, Lai, Li, Sinitskiy, Zhang</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Kautz, Malina</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry deals with the analysis, structure, properties, and synthesis of matter ranging in size from single atoms to biologically-active small molecules to DNA and proteins. A degree in chemistry prepares students for many career options: industry (research, analysis, production), teaching, graduate studies, or professional schools. The bachelor of science (BS) is recommended for students planning graduate studies or professional careers in chemistry and is also an excellent choice for pre-medicine. The bachelor of arts (BA) program is designed for students needing undergraduate training in chemistry as preparation for professional careers outside of chemistry and fits easily into pre-medical, pre-pharmacy, pre-health, and pre-law degree programs. A degree with a chemistry emphasis is available to students enrolled in the Environmental Studies program (consult that entry for details). The chemistry department hosts a Web page with other information (scholarships, etc.) relating to the undergraduate programs at http://chem.unl.edu/undergrad/.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Laboratory Fee and Deposit.</span><span class="generated-style"> Students who enroll in chemistry laboratory courses pay a special fee to defray the cost of materials and equipment. The special fee is applied to tuition in the amounts given in the </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Schedule of Classes</span><span class="generated-style">.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Breakage Costs.</span><span class="generated-style"> Glassware and equipment that are lost or damaged by the student are charged to the student’s N-card.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span><span class="generated-style"> The advanced degrees of master of science and doctor of philosophy are offered. For details, consult the </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span><span class="generated-style">.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Bachelor of Science in Chemistry–Required Program of Study</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry (43-46 cr); Math (14 cr); and Physics (8-12 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 113, CHEM 114, CHEM 116 (Fundamental Chemistry)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE Student Learning Outcome 4 is met by CHEM 113 (and CHEM 105, CHEM 109, CHEM 110)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 261, CHEM 262, CHEM 263 (2 cr), CHEM 264 (2 cr) (Organic Chemistry)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 431, CHEM 433 (Biochemistry)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 481, CHEM 482, CHEM 484 (Physical Chemistry)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 399 (at least 2 cr) (Undergraduate Research)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">And</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Either CHEM 421 &amp; CHEM 423 (Analytical Chemistry) or CHEM 441 &amp; CHEM 443 (Inorganic Chemistry) or both.</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE Student Learning Outcome 10 is met by both combinations of CHEM 421 &amp; CHEM 423 and CHEM 441 &amp; CHEM 443</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 208</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 211, PHYS 212 (with recommendations of PHYS 213 &amp; PHYS 222)</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Bachelor of Arts in Chemistry–Required Program of Study</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry (31-35 cr); Math (10 cr); and Physics (8-10 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109, CHEM 110, CHEM 221 (General Chemistry &amp; Quantitative Analysis)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE Student Learning Outcome 4 is met by CHEM 109 (and CHEM 105, CHEM 110, CHEM 113)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 251, CHEM 252, CHEM 253, CHEM 254 (Organic Chemistry)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 471 (or CHEM 481) (Physical Chemistry)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">And</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">At least two of the following combinations: </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 421 &amp; CHEM 423 (Analytical); CHEM 431 &amp; CHEM 433 (Biological); CHEM 441 &amp; CHEM 443 (Inorganic)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACE Student Learning Outcome 10 is met by both combinations of CHEM 421 &amp; CHEM 423 and CHEM 441 &amp; CHEM 443</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106, MATH 238 (or MATH 107)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 252 and CHEM 262</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE: </span><span class="generated-style">It is possible to transfer between the BS and BA programs despite the different sets of courses, but the student should visit the chemistry adviser to work out the details. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required in their senior year:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. To take a standardized chemistry exam during their final year in the program. It will be administered during the middle of the spring semester at a time that is mutually agreeable to all graduating seniors.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. To participate in an exit interview with a designated faculty member.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. To submit a copy of the report written for CHEM 399 to the departmental office for evaluation.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Vice-Chair will inform students of the scheduling and format of assessment activities. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Results of participation in these assessment activities will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students majoring in chemistry may not take chemistry courses Pass/No Pass except for CHEM 396 and/or CHEM 399. Chemistry majors may take up to 6 hours in minor courses Pass/No Pass subject to approval of the department granting the minor.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Plan A chemistry minor is for students with only one minor. The program of study is:</span><span class="generated-style"> completion of a freshman chemistry sequence (CHEM 109, CHEM 110, and CHEM 221 or CHEM 113, CHEM 114, and CHEM 116) plus an additional 12 hours of chemistry excluding CHEM 131, CHEM 195, CHEM 396, and CHEM 399.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Plan B chemistry minor is for students with two or more minors. The program of study is:</span><span class="generated-style"> completion of a freshman chemistry sequence (CHEM 109, CHEM 110, and CHEM 221 or CHEM 113, CHEM 114, and CHEM 116) plus an additional 8 hours of chemistry excluding CHEM 131, CHEM 195, CHEM 396, and CHEM 399.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
