<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Classics_&amp;_Religious_Studies-11</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="classics-religious-studies-11">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Classics &amp; Religious Studies</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Classics &amp; Religious Studies</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes–Classics; Religious Studies</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISERs:</span><span class="generated-style"> Dan Crawford (Religious Studies); Thomas Rinkevich (Classics)</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Stephen G. Burnett,</span><span class="generated-style"> 237 Andrews Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> S. Crawford, Turner</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Athanassopoulos (anthropology), Burnett, Duncan, Rinkevich, Winter, Wood</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Gorman, Komarvoski, Lahey</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Senior Lecturer:</span><span class="generated-style"> D. Crawford</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bailey, Watley</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The courses and majors in the Department of Classics and Religious Studies have been designed to meet the needs of three categories of students: </span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1 Those who wish to pursue the subjects for general educational purposes; </span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2 Those who plan to major and do graduate work in classics or religious studies;</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3 Those who want to become high school Latin teachers.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Any student who studies classics and religious studies will acquire the basic elements of a liberal education and a beneficial background for study in professional schools.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span><span class="generated-style"> The advanced degree of master of arts is offered. For details of this program see the </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span><span class="generated-style">.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">The Major in Classics and Religious Studies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The classics and religious studies major offers a wide range of courses in the civilization, religions and culture of the ancient Mediterranean world, as well as ancient and modern religions broadly conceived. It is an interdisciplinary major with two areas of emphasis, one in Classics and one in Religious Studies. Depending on your chosen emphasis, this major is designed to provide you with an excellent background to pursue graduate work in classical languages and literature, classical archaeology, ancient history, religious studies, literary scholarship, and other humane disciplines. In addition, the broad and humane education offered by the major serves as excellent preparation for careers in law, medicine, journalism, religion, business and education. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">The Major in Classical Languages</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This major is intended primarily for those interested in graduate study of the Greco-Roman world. As competency in both Greek and Latin is requisite for graduate study, students must take courses in both languages to complete the major. This major is also appropriate for students who wish to undertake advanced study in related fields such as linguistics, or to teach high school Latin.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Study Abroad.</span><span class="generated-style"> Advanced undergraduates are encouraged to further their studies abroad. Students may choose from among several established programs that cover a full academic year, semester, or summer. Most ancient studies programs offer a variety of courses in classics, ancient and modern languages, and history. In addition, students are introduced to the archaeology and art of the culture by frequent trips to sites and museums. These programs include, but are not limited to the American School of Classical Studies at Athens, College Year in Athens, the Intercollegiate Center for Classical Studies in Rome, and The Hebrew University in Jerusalem.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Also, UNL faculty frequently offer archaeological study tours to Greece, Italy, Turkey and Egypt during the summers. The department administers the Clarence A. Forbes Fellowship for study abroad.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Core Courses</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 180 Classical Mythology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 283 Epic Tales: The World’s Heros &amp; Gods (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 286 Literature of the Ancient Near East (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 305 Ancient Greek Religions (RELG 305) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 307 Early Christianity (HIST 307/RELG 307) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 312 Pagans &amp; Christians in the Roman Empire (RELG 312) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 331 Ancient Israel (HIST 331/JUDS 331/RELG 331) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 181 Judaism, Christianity, &amp; Islam (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The major requires 30 hours of courses. Students will choose 9 hours from the Core Course list above. In addition, each student will choose an emphasis in either Classics or Religious Studies (described below). Twelve hours must be taken at the 300 level or above. The student may count up to 6 hours above the 100 level in Greek, Latin, or Hebrew toward the major. No more than 6 hours of independent study may count toward the major. A minor is required and may be any Plan A minor approved by the College.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. To assemble and maintain a portfolio to include the syllabus and a copy of all written exams and assignments for each course applied toward the major.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. In their senior year, to complete a written exit survey.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The undergraduate adviser will inform students of the scheduling and format of assessment activities.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Results of participation in these assessment activities will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for the Emphasis in Classics</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students may divide their courses among the following areas, provided 6 hours are taken in each area. Core courses may also count toward the area requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Area A. Arts and Archaeology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">AHIS 211 Classical Art &amp; Archaeology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">AHIS 311 Greek Art &amp; Archaeology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">AHIS 313 Roman Art &amp; Archaeology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">AHIS 411 Classical Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">AHIS 413 Roman Painting</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 252 Archaeology of World Civilizations (ANTH 252)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 320 The Classical World: Archaeology &amp; Texts</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 438/838 Topics in Old World Prehistory (ANTH 438)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Area B. Language, Thought, and Literature</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 180 Classical Mythology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 183 Heros, Harlots &amp; Helots</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 281 The World of Classical Greece (ENGL 240A)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 282 The World of Classical Rome (ENGL 240B)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 283 Epic Tales: The World’s Heros &amp; Gods</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 286 Literature of the Ancient Near East</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 381 Ancient Novel (ENGL 381)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 409 Religion of Late Western Antiquity (HIST 409/RELG 409)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 483 Classical Drama (ENGL 440)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 340 Classical Roots of English Literature</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 231 History of Philosophy (Ancient)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 336 Ethics: Ancient &amp; Medieval</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 337 Knowledge: Ancient &amp; Medieval</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 338 Metaphysics: Ancient &amp; Medieval</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 450 Ancient Philosophy</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Area C. Historical Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 141 Spectacle &amp; Entertainment in the Roman World</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 233 Science in the Classical World</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 245 War in the Classical World</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 305 Ancient Greek Religions (RELG 305)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 307 Early Christianity (HIST 307/RELG 307)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 312 Pagans &amp; Christians in the Roman Empire (RELG 312)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 315 Medieval World: Byzantium (HIST 315)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 331 Ancient Israel (HIST 331/JUDS 331/RELG 331)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 440 Gender &amp; Sexuality in the Ancient World (WMNS 440)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">HIST 210 Ancient Rome</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">HIST 311 The World of Homer</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">HIST 318 The Roman Empire</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">HIST 412 City States in Classical Greece</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">HIST 417 The Roman Revolution, 133 BCE-68 CE</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for the Emphasis in Religious Studies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students may divide their courses among the following areas, provided 6 hours are taken in each area. Core courses may also count toward the area requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Area D. The Nature of Religion</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 125W Religion, Peace &amp; Social Justice</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 150 Explaining Religion</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 206 Ways of Western Religion</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 220 Reason &amp; Religion</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 225 Science &amp; Religion</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 310 Great Ideas in Religious Thought: From God to Nothingness</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 350 Issues in the Theory &amp; Study of Relgion</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 418 Fundamentalism, Religion, &amp; Politics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 265 Philosophy of Religion</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 338 Metaphysics: Ancient &amp; Medieval</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 452 Sociology of Religion</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Area E. Biblical Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 205 Intro to the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament (JUDS 205)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 212W Life &amp; Letters of Paul</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 217 Israel: The Holy Land (HIST 217/JUDS 217)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 306 Second Temple Judaism (JUDS 306)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 307 Early Christianity (CLAS 307/HIST 307)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 331 Ancient Israel (CLAS 331/HIST 331/JUDS 331)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 340 Women in the Biblical World (JUDS 340/WMNS 340)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 408 Dead Sea Scrolls (CLAS 408/JUDS 408)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 341 The Bible as Literature</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Area F. The Study of Religious Traditions</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 108 World Religions</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 118 Intro to Asian Religions</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 130W Women &amp; Religion</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 134W Religious Diversity in the United States</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 181 Judaism, Christianity &amp; Islam</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 208 Intro to Islam</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 209 Judaism &amp; Christianity in Conflict &amp; Coexistence (JUDS 209)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 218 Intro to Buddhism</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 230 Tibetan Buddhism</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 305 Ancient Greek Religions (CLAS 305)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 318 Islam in the Modern World</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 332 Jews in the Middle Ages (HIST 332/JUDS 332)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 334 Jews, Christians &amp; the Bible (JUDS 334)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 351 Death, Immortality &amp; Transcendance in Asian Religions</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 370 Religion &amp; Reform: Utopian &amp; Communal Societies in America (ANTH 370)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 409 Religion of Late Western Antiquity (CLAS 409/HIST 409)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 410 Gnosticism (CLAS 410)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">RELG 489 Medieval Literature &amp; Theology (ENGL 489)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 286 Literature of the Ancient Near East</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CLAS 312 Pagans &amp; Christians in the Roman Empire (RELG 312)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">HIST 218 History of Islam</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">HIST 219 Intro to Jewish History (JUDS 219/RELG 219)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">HIST 220 History of Christianity</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">HIST 421 The German Reformation</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">JUDS 350 Literature of Judaism</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUSC 451 Music &amp; the Church</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MUSC 452 Hymnology</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Departmental permission to take major or minor courses for Pass/No Pass credit must be obtained. Request forms are available in the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for the Minor in Classics</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A minimum of 18 hours in the courses listed in A, B, and C. At least 3 hours must be taken from each area, and at least 9 of those hours must be CLAS. At least 6 hours must be above 299.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for the Minor in Religious Studies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A minimum of 18 hours in the courses listed in D, E, and F. At least 3 hours must be taken from each area, and at least 9 of those hours must be RELG. At least 6 hours must be above 299.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
