<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Classical_Languages-11</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="classical-languages-11">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Classical Languages</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Classical Languages</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes–Greek; Latin</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Robert Gorman</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Stephen G. Burnett,</span><span class="generated-style"> 237 Andrews Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> S. Crawford, Turner</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Athanassopoulos (anthropology), Burnett, Duncan, Rinkevich, Winter, Wood</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Gorman, Komarvoski, Lahey</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Senior Lecturer:</span><span class="generated-style"> D. Crawford</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bailey, Watley</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The courses and majors in the Department of Classics and Religious Studies have been designed to meet the needs of three categories of students: </span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Those who wish to pursue the subjects for general educational purposes; </span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Those who plan to major and do graduate work in classics or religious studies;</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Those who want to become high school Latin teachers.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Any student who studies classics and religious studies will acquire the basic elements of a liberal education and a beneficial background for study in professional schools.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span><span class="generated-style"> The advanced degree of master of arts is offered. For details of this program see the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">The Major in Classics and Religious Studies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The classics and religious studies major offers a wide range of courses in the civilization, religions and culture of the ancient Mediterranean world, as well as ancient and modern religions broadly conceived. It is an interdisciplinary major with two areas of emphasis, one in Classics and one in Religious Studies. Depending on your chosen emphasis, this major is designed to provide you with an excellent background to pursue graduate work in classical languages and literature, classical archaeology, ancient history, religious studies, literary scholarship, and other humane disciplines. In addition, the broad and humane education offered by the major serves as excellent preparation for careers in law, medicine, journalism, religion, business and education. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">The Major in Classical Languages</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This major is intended primarily for those interested in graduate study of the Greco-Roman world. As competency in both Greek and Latin is requisite for graduate study, students must take courses in both languages to complete the major. This major is also appropriate for students who wish to undertake advanced study in related fields such as linguistics, or to teach high school Latin.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Study Abroad. </span><span class="generated-style">Advanced undergraduates are encouraged to further their studies abroad. Students may choose from among several established programs that cover a full academic year, semester, or summer. Most ancient studies programs offer a variety of courses in classics, ancient and modern languages, and history. In addition, students are introduced to the archaeology and art of the culture by frequent trips to sites and museums. These programs include, but are not limited to the American School of Classical Studies at Athens, College Year in Athens, the Intercollegiate Center for Classical Studies in Rome, and The Hebrew University in Jerusalem.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Also, UNL faculty frequently offer archaeological study tours to Greece, Italy, Turkey and Egypt during the summers. The department administers the Clarence A. Forbes Fellowship for study abroad.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">24 hours of courses in Latin or Greek or Classics</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. To assemble and maintain a portfolio to include the syllabus and a copy of all written exams and assignments for each course taken for the major above 299.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. In their senior year, to complete a translation/essay exam.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. In their senior year, to complete a written exit survey.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The undergraduate adviser will inform students of the scheduling and format of assessment activities.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Results of participation in these assessment activities will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minor Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A minor is required and may be any Plan A minor approved offered by the College with the consent of the adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Departmental permission to take major or minor courses for Pass/No Pass credit must be obtained. Request forms are available in the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Level Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">At least 18 of the 24 hours must be in Latin and/or Greek above 299. All Classics hours must be above 199.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Normally, no more than 6 hours of 399 credit may count towards major requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Independent Study. </span><span class="generated-style">Before registering for an independent study, students must consult with and gain the approval of a faculty member with whom they wish to work.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Internships. </span><span class="generated-style">We encourage students to do internships that apply to the major. There are very specific requirements that must be met before an internship can be approved. Students must meet with a communication studies adviser to determine if they meet the internship requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for the Minor in Greek and the Minor in Latin</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">12 hours in Greek or Latin numbered above 299</span></li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
