<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Computational Biology &amp; Bioinformatics Minor</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="computational-biology-bioinformatics-minor">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Computational Biology &amp; Bioinformatics Minor</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences, Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources, Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Computational Biology &amp; Bioinformatics (Minor only) </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Minor only</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 18</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator:</span><span class="generated-style"> Computer Science and Engineering Department, 256 Avery Hall, Phone: (402) 472-2401, Email: cbb@unl.edu.</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Steering Committee: </span><span class="generated-style">Etsuko Moriyama (SBS), Stephen E. Reichenbach (CSE), Stephen D. Kachman (Statistics), Jeyamkondan Subbiah (BSE)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This interdisciplinary minor prepares students to understand, use, and develop advanced computational methods and tools for processing, visualizing, and analyzing biological data and for modeling biological processes. Studies in computational biology and bioinformatics involve biosciences, computer science, engineering, mathematics, and statistics. Students will be prepared for careers in biomedical, biotechnology, agricultural, pharmaceutical, and engineering fields and for related graduate studies.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">18 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> Includes 13 hours for the core courses and at minimum 5 hours from elective courses are required.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Foundation courses</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The following courses are required for the CBB minor students to have the necessary foundations towards the minor. These courses are also the prerequisites to the core courses listed below:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 102 Cell Structure &amp; Function (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I (4 cr) or equivalent</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I (5 cr) or equivalent</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Core courses (13 hours)*</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 155T Computer Science I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 311 Data Structures &amp; Algorithms for Informatics (3 cr) </span><span class="requirement-ital">(starts Spring 2012)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 237 Basic Application of Bioinformatics (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">STAT 218 Intro to Statistics or STAT 380 Statistics &amp; Applications (3 cr) </span><span class="requirement-ital">(special section of STAT 218 for CBB minor may be offered in Fall 2011)**</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">*These requirements can be replaced with equivalent courses upon approval except for BIOS 237, which cannot be replaced.</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">**Students are strongly encouraged to take STAT 218 or STAT 380. However, ELEC 305 (Probability Theory &amp; Intro to Random Processes) can be used to satisfy this requirement subject to approval.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Elective courses: Two courses (5 hours minimum) at 400 levels</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Take one each from Life Science electives and Computer Science/Mathematics/Statistics/Engineering electives in the following lists. These lists will be updated periodically. Similar courses can be used to fulfill elective requirements upon approval by the CBB Minor steering committee.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">For life science major students, those courses listed as LS elective 2 cannot be used for CBB requirements. For students in computer science, mathematics, engineering, and related majors, those courses listed as CMSE elective 2 cannot be used for CBB requirements.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Life Science elective courses</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">LS elective 1: for students in life science majors</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 427 Practical Bioinformatics Laboratory (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 428 Perl Programming for Biological Applications (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 456 Mathematical Models in Biology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 477 Bioinformatics &amp; Molecular Evolution (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">STAT 442 Computational Biology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">LS elective 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 431 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 432 Gene Expression &amp; Replication (2 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 434 Plant Biochemistry (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 420 Molecular Genetics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 425 Plant Biotechnology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 429 Phylogenetic Biology (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 472 Evolution (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Computer Science/Mathematics/Statistics/Engineering Electives</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">CMSE elective 1: for students in computer science major</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 471 Intro to Bioinformatics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">CMSE elective 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 414 Medical Imaging Systems (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHME 473 Biochemical Engineering (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 474 Advanced Biochemical Engineering (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 410 Information Retrieval Systems (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 413 Database Systems (3cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 421 Foundations of Constraint Processing </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 423 Algorithms (3cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 435 Cluster &amp; Grid Computing (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 456 Parallel Programming (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 471 Digital Image Processing (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 474 Intro to Data Mining (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 476 Intro to Artificial Intelligence (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 478 Intro to Machine Learning (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 479 Intro to Neural Networks (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 439 Mathematical Models in Biology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 452 Graph Theory (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">STAT 412 Intro to Experimental Design</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">STAT 450 Intro to Regression Analysis</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
