<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Computer Science</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="computer-science">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Computer Science</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Computer Science </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Charles Riedesel</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Steve Goddard, </span><span class="generated-style">256 Avery</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Deogun, Dwyer, Elbaum, Goddard, Jiang, Ramamurthy, Reichenbach, Revesz, Rothermel, Samal, Seth, Sincovec (emeritus), Surkan (emeritus)</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Choueiry, Cohen, Costello (emeritus), Lu, Scott, Soh, Srisa-An, Variyam, Xu</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Detweiler, Sarma, Vuran, Zhong</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Research Associate Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Swanson</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Riedesel</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Senior Lecturer:</span><span class="generated-style"> Chandra</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturer:</span><span class="generated-style"> Suing</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Phone:</span><span class="generated-style"> 402-472-2401</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">FAX:</span><span class="generated-style"> 402-472-7767</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">http://cse.unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">email:</span><span class="generated-style"> info@cse.unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The UNL Department of Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) offers Nebraska’s only comprehensive program of higher education, research, and service outreach in computer science and computer engineering.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The CSE department offers a challenging baccalaureate degree program in computer science that prepares graduates for professional practice as computer scientists, provides the basis for advanced studies in the field, and establishes a foundation for life-long learning and achievement.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Consistent with these goals, the computer science baccalaureate program develops:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The ability to solve a wide range of computing-related problems. Studies include mathematical foundations, computer science theory, programming and software design, system components and design, application of theory, experimentation, design tools and techniques, and documentation and maintenance.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The ability to work with professionals in fields related to computing and/or having computing applications. Studies include natural sciences and the completion of at least one minor.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Skills to quickly adapt to new work environments, assimilate new information, and solve new problems. Studies include application of theory, experimentation, design tools and techniques, documentation and maintenance, and technical communications.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The background and perspective necessary to pursue post-graduate education. Studies include computer science theory, application of theory, experimentation, and life-long learning/professional development.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Abilities to work in conformance with societal needs and expectations. Studies include liberal arts and ethical/social issues.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Insight into the world of practicing professionals for collaborations, mutual support, and representing the profession to government and society. Studies include teamwork and life-long learning/professional development, plus students are provided multiple opportunities for involvement in organizations such as ACM and UPE; undergraduate research; and service to the department and community.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The CSE Department also offers a degree of bachelor of science in computer engineering through the College of Engineering. All students majoring in the CSE Department should see their advisers during their first semester to make sure they understand the differences in the requirements of the two programs. Majors must consult with their advisers each semester for registration advising.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="basic-text-bold">Introductory Courses.</span><span class="generated-style"> Entering students may select from several introductory courses, according to their interests and as indicated by the CSE Placement Examination. The </span><span class="basic-text-bold">Computer Science I</span><span class="generated-style"> courses (CSCE 155A, CSCE 155H, CSCE 155E, CSCE 155N, and CSCE 155T) all provide a foundation in designing and programming computing solutions and prepare students for more advanced CSCE courses, including CSCE 156. These courses are designed to meet different interests. CSCE 155A is designed for students majoring in computer science or computer engineering. CSCE 155H is for honors students. CSCE 155E emphasizes computing for systems engineering, such as control systems, mobile computing, and embedded devices. CSCE 155N focuses on numerical and graphical computation in engineering and science, such as applied physics, working with time-sequence data, and matrix applications. CSCE 155T focuses on data and information processing, such as document or database applications, online commerce, or bioinformatics. CSCE 156 is for students with a background in designing and programming computing solutions, such as is provided by Computer Science I. CSCE 101 is for students seeking a broad introduction to computer science with brief instruction in computer programming.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Programs.</span><span class="generated-style"> The CSE department offers several graduate degree programs: master of science in computer science, master of science in computer science with computer engineering specialization, master of science in computer science with bioinformatics specialization, doctor of philosophy in computer science, doctor of philosophy in engineering with computer engineering specialization, doctor of philosophy in computer science with bioinformatics specialization, and joint doctor of philosophy in computer science and mathematics. See the </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span><span class="generated-style"> for details.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Other Admission Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Computer Science Placement Policy.</span><span class="generated-style"> The required Computer Science and Engineering Placement Exam (CSEPE) is used to assess students’ background in problem solving, computer programming, and relevant mathematics. Students who have not taken a recognized UNL or transfer prerequisite course with a grade of C or better must take the CSEPE.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Computer Science (44 hours)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Computer Science Core (22-24 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 155A, CSCE 156, CSCE 230, CSCE 230L, CSCE 235, CSCE 251, CSCE 310, CSCE 322, and CSCE 361</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">Or for students in the J. S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management: RAIK 183H, RAIK 184H, RAIK 283H, RAIK 284H, RAIK 383H, CSCE 251, CSCE 322.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Depth Courses (6 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 351 or CSCE 451, </span><span class="requirement-bold">and </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 423 or CSCE 428</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Technical Electives (9-11 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">Any CSCE/RAIK 3xx or 4xx courses except CSCE 390, CSCE 490, </span><span class="requirement-bold">and </span><span class="generated-style">RAIK courses lacking CSCE equivalents (except that RAIK 301H, RAIK 302H, RAIK 384H, RAIK 401H, and RAIK 402H are acceptable as technical electives).</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">Up to 3 hours of CSCE 491 can be used for technical electives, and an additional 3 hours can be used toward the 125 hours required for the degree.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">At most, one of MATH 428, MATH 432, MATH 433, MATH 439, MATH 450, MATH 452</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Senior Design Experience (5 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 486 (or</span><span class="requirement-bold"> </span><span class="generated-style">RAIK 381H or RAIK 382H), </span><span class="requirement-bold">and</span><span class="generated-style"> CSCE 487 (or RAIK 302H or RAIK 402H). CSCE 486 and CSCE 487 are to be taken in consecutive semesters.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Students completing the Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management automatically satisfy the technical electives and senior design experience requirements and need only CSCE 251, CSCE 322, and the 6 hours of depth courses to satisfy the computer science requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics (16 hours)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 314, and STAT 380</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Joint mathematics and computer science majors who take any two MATH 4xx courses listed under Technical Electives for Computer Science may apply one of those courses toward both majors.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Science (12 hours)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">Must be in courses intended for science/engineering majors and must include at least two laboratories in a single science discipline. The CSE department has identified the following five disciplines with their acceptable courses:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry: </span><span class="requirement-bold">CHEM 109</span><span class="generated-style">,</span><span class="requirement-bold"> CHEM 110</span><span class="generated-style">,</span><span class="requirement-bold"> CHEM 221</span><span class="generated-style"> (or </span><span class="requirement-bold">CHEM 113</span><span class="generated-style">, CHEM 114, </span><span class="requirement-bold">CHEM 116</span><span class="generated-style">)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Physics and Astronomy: PHYS 211, </span><span class="requirement-bold">PHYS 221</span><span class="generated-style">, PHYS 212, </span><span class="requirement-bold">PHYS 222</span><span class="generated-style">, PHYS 213, </span><span class="requirement-bold">PHYS 223</span><span class="generated-style">, ASTR 204, </span><span class="requirement-bold">ASTR 224</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Biological Sciences: BIOS 102, </span><span class="requirement-bold">BIOS 103</span><span class="generated-style">, </span><span class="requirement-bold">BIOS 109</span><span class="generated-style">, BIOS 111, BIOS 112, </span><span class="requirement-bold">BIOS 112L</span><span class="generated-style">, </span><span class="requirement-bold">BIOS 205</span><span class="generated-style">, BIOS 206, </span><span class="requirement-bold">BIOS 207</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Earth and Atmospheric Sciences: </span><span class="requirement-bold">GEOL 101</span><span class="generated-style">,</span><span class="requirement-bold"> GEOL 103H</span><span class="generated-style">, </span><span class="requirement-bold">GEOL 210</span><span class="generated-style">, GEOL 410, </span><span class="requirement-bold">METR 200</span><span class="generated-style">, METR 205, METR 370</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Anthropology: ANTH 242, </span><span class="requirement-bold">ANTH 242L</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bold face type indicates a lab course or that a lab is included with the course.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required in their senior year to complete a written exit survey.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Results of participation in these assessment activities will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Focus</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A computer science major has the option of declaring a Focus in one of the areas listed below. Students who, in addition to meeting all computer science requirements listed above, receive a grade of C or better in each of three courses from one area below will receive a notice from the Department of Computer Science and Engineering stating that they received the degree bachelor of science in computer science with a Focus in their chosen area.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">The Focus areas are as follows:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Informatics: CSCE 410, CSCE 413, CSCE 464, CSCE 470, CSCE 471, CSCE 472, CSCE 473, CSCE 474</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Artificial Intelligence: CSCE 421, CSCE 475, CSCE 476, CSCE 478, CSCE 479</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Computer and Networking Systems: CSCE 430, CSCE 432, CSCE 434, CSCE 435, CSCE 455, CSCE 456, CSCE 462</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Foundations: CSCE 340, CSCE 421, CSCE 423, CSCE 424, CSCE 428, CSCE 477</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition, up to 3 hours of CSCE 498 Computer Problems (undergraduate research) can be used in any focus area. Some offerings of CSCE 496 Special Topics may be substituted in an appropriate area. See your adviser for more details.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A Focus is in addition to all major requirements. Thus, no course used by a student to fulfill a major requirement can also be applied to a Focus.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Customized Focus Areas are possible. The department chair, in consultation with relevant faculty members and the undergraduate adviser, may approve a customized Focus Area proposed by a student. See your adviser for more information.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To declare a Focus, see your adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minor Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Plan A minor enables students to develop expertise in an additional academic area. Completing MATH 208 (in addition to the major requirements) meets the Plan A minor requirement for mathematics. See your adviser for more information.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who wish to take a cohesive block of courses that crosses departmental or even college lines should consider the Individualized Program of Studies minor offered by the College or a business minor offered by the College of Business Administration.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Departmental permission to take major or minor courses for Pass/No Pass credit must be obtained. Request forms are available in the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Level Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">13 hours of the CSCE courses must be at the 400 level for students not completing the J. S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">For students not enrolled in the J. S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management:</span><span class="generated-style"> 18 hours of computer science courses, including CSCE 155 and CSCE 156 and at least 3 hours of CSCE courses at the 300 level or above, but excluding CSCE courses explicitly designated as not counting toward the minor.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">For students enrolled in the J. S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management:</span><span class="generated-style"> 18 hours of computer science courses, including CSCE 183H/RAIK 183H, CSCE 184H/RAIK 184H, and CSCE 283H/RAIK 283H. For the remaining 7 hours, students may count any CSCE courses (or RAIK courses cross-listed as CSCE courses) numbered 200 or above (except CSCE 235 and courses designated as not counting toward the minor) and up to 3 hours for a RAIK Design Studio course (RAIK 301H, RAIK 302H, RAIK 401H, RAIK 402H).</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
