<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Computer Engineering (Lincoln)</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="computer-engineering-lincoln-">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Computer Engineering (Lincoln)</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Computer Engineering (Lincoln)</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 126</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Charles Riedesel</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Steve Goddard</span><span class="generated-style">, 256 Avery Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Deogun, Dwyer, Elbaum, Goddard, Jiang, Ramamurthy, Reichenbach, Revesz, Rothermel, Samal, Seth, Sincovec (emeritus), Surkan (emeritus)</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Choueiry, Cohen, Costello (emeritus), Lu, Scott, Soh, Srisa-An, Variyam, Xu</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Detweiler, Sarma, Vuran, Zhong</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Research Associate Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Swanson</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Riedesel</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Senior Lecturer:</span><span class="generated-style"> Chandra</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturer:</span><span class="generated-style"> Suing</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Phone:</span><span class="generated-style"> (402) 472-2401</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">FAX:</span><span class="generated-style"> (402) 472-7767</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Web site: </span><span class="generated-style">http://cse.unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">email:</span><span class="generated-style"> info@cse.unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The UNL Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) Department offers Nebraska’s only comprehensive program of higher education, research, and service outreach in computer science and computer engineering.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The CSE Department offers a challenging baccalaureate degree program in computer engineering that prepares graduates for professional practice in commerce, industry, and government, and for post-graduate education to enter careers in research and academia.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The focus of the program is integrated hardware/software system design. Increasingly, diverse systems, products, and processes depend on computers for design, control, data acquisition, and other functions. The computer engineer possesses the range of expertise to have an integrated view of computer-based systems and to make global design decisions.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Consistent with this focus, the computer engineering baccalaureate program develops:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The ability to view computer systems as an integrated continuum of technologies and to engage in integrated system-level design. Studies include mathematical foundations, digital logic and technologies, programming and software design, system components and design, application of theory, experimentation, design tools and techniques, and documentation and maintenance.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The ability to work with professionals in related fields over the spectrum of system design. Studies include natural sciences, electricity/electronics, and programming and software design.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Skills to quickly adapt to new work environments, assimilate new information, and solve new problems. Studies develop skills in the application of theory, experimentation, design tools and techniques, documentation and maintenance, and technical communications.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The background and perspective for post-graduate education. Studies develop skills in the application of theory, experimentation, and life-long learning/professional development.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Abilities to work in conformance with societal needs and expectations. Studies include liberal arts and ethical/social issues.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Insight into the world of practicing professionals, for collaborations, mutual support, and representing the profession to government and society. Studies include teamwork and life-long learning/professional development, plus students are provided multiple opportunities for involvement in organizations such as ACM, UPE, and IEEE.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The CSE department also offers a degree of bachelor of science in computer science through the College of Arts and Sciences. All students majoring in the CSE department should see their advisers during their first semester to make sure they understand the differences in the requirements of the two programs. Majors should consult with their advisers each semester for registration advising.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Introductory Courses.</span><span class="generated-style"> Entering students may select from several introductory courses according to their interests and as indicated by the CSE Placement Examination. The Computer Science I courses (CSCE 155A, CSCE 155H, CSCE 155E, CSCE 155N, and CSCE 155T) all provide a foundation in designing and programming computing solutions and prepare students for more advanced CSCE courses, including CSCE 156. These courses are designed to meet different interests. CSCE 155A is designed for students majoring in computer science or computer engineering. CSCE 155H is for honors students. CSCE 155E emphasizes computing for systems engineering, such as control systems, mobile computing, and embedded devices. CSCE 155N focuses on numerical and graphical computation in engineering and science, such as applied physics, working with time-sequence data, and matrix applications. CSCE 155T focuses on data and information processing, such as document or database applications, online commerce, or bioinformatics. CSCE 156 is for students with a background in designing and programming computing solutions, such as is provided by Computer Science I. CSCE 101 is for students seeking a broad introduction to computer science with brief instruction in computer programming.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Programs.</span><span class="generated-style"> The CSE Department offers several graduate degree programs: master of science in computer science, master of science in computer science with computer engineering specialization, master of science in computer science with bioinformatics specialization, doctor of philosophy in computer science, doctor of philosophy in engineering with computer engineering specialization, doctor of philosophy in computer science with bioinformatics specialization, and joint doctor of philosophy in computer science and mathematics. See the </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span><span class="generated-style"> for details.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Other Admission Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Computer Science Placement Policy</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The required Computer Science and Engineering Placement Exam (CSEPE) is used to assess students’ background in problem solving, computer programming, and relevant mathematics. Students who have not taken a recognized UNL or transfer prerequisite course with a grade of C or better must take the CSEPE.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The computer engineering degree requires 126 hours of course work. There is a set of required core courses in computer science and engineering (41 credit hours), electrical engineering (17 credit hours), mathematics (20 credit hours), and physics and chemistry (12-13 credit hours). In addition, students select 3 credit hours of open elective and 15 credit hours of technical electives from courses in the focus areas described below.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Focus Areas:</span><span class="generated-style"> A computer engineering major has the option of declaring a focus in one of the areas listed below. Students who, in addition to completing all computer engineering required courses listed above, receive a grade of C or better in each of the five technical elective courses from one focus area below, will receive a notice from the Department of Computer Science and Engineering stating that they received the degree bachelor of science in computer engineering with a focus in their chosen area. The focus areas are:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">Embedded Systems and Robotics:</span><span class="generated-style"> CSCE 430, CSCE 436, CSCE 438, ELEC 416, MECH 453</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">VLSI Design:</span><span class="generated-style"> CSCE 430, ELEC 417, ELEC 421, CSCE 434 or ELEC 470, CSCE 475 or ELEC 416. Students choosing this focus area must take PHYS 213 and PHYS 223 as the science requirement.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Signal Processing: ELEC 462, ELEC 463, ELEC 465 and two of the following three courses: CSCE 472, CSCE 473, ELEC 464.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">High-Performance Computing:</span><span class="generated-style"> CSCE 430, CSCE 432, CSCE 437, CSCE 455, CSCE 435, CSCE 456. </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">A focus is in addition to required core courses. Thus no required course can be applied to a focus. Customized focus areas also are possible. The department chair, in consultation with relevant faculty members and the undergraduate adviser, may approve a customized focus area proposed by a student.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Some offerings of CSCE 496 Special Topics may be substituted in an appropriate area. In addition, up to 3 hours of CSCE 498 Computer Problems (undergraduate research) or 3 hours of CSCE 491 (internships) can be used in any focus area pending an approval from your adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Typical Schedule</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">First Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 155A Computer Science I* 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 251 Unix Programming Environment 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, and 9 elective courses. Taking both CSCE 230 and CSCE 488 satisfies ACE outcome 8.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Second Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 156 Computer Science II* 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 230 Computer Organization* 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 230L Computer Organization Lab* 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 335 Digital Logic Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Third Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 235 Intro to Discrete Structures* 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 215 Electronics &amp; Circuits I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 235 Introductory Electrical Lab I 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fourth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 236 Embedded Systems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 310 Data Structures &amp; Algorithms* 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 216 Electronics &amp; Circuits II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 236 Introductory Electrical Lab II 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fifth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 351 Operating System Kernels 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 361 Software Engineering 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 304 Signals &amp; Systems I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 316 Electronics &amp; Circuits III 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Science Requirement 4-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Must be a course designed for science/engineering majors with a laboratory component. Choose from: CHEM 109 (4 hrs) or PHYS 213 &amp; PHYS 223 (5 hrs, required for students electing VLSI Design as their focus area).</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16-17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Sixth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 462 Communication Networks 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 305 Probability Theory &amp; Intro to Random Processes 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 314 Applied Linear Algebra 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Open Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Technical Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Seventh Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 340 Numerical Analysis I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 488 Computer Engineering Professional Development**&amp;*** 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JGEN 300 Technical Communication II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, and 9 elective courses. Taking both CSCE 230 and CSCE 488 satisfies ACE outcome 8.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Technical Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Eighth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 489 Computer Engineering Senior Design Project**&amp;*** 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, and 9 elective courses. Taking both CSCE 230 and CSCE 488 satisfies ACE outcome 8.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Technical Electives 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">* As part of the required core courses in computer science and engineering, students in the J. S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management take RAIK 183H, RAIK 184H, RAIK 283H, RAIK 284H, and RAIK 383H instead of CSCE 155A, CSCE 156, CSCE 230, CSCE 230L, CSCE 235, CSCE 310 and CSCE 361.</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">** Students in the J. S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management may substitute RAIK 381H or RAIK 382H for CSCE 488, and RAIK 302H or RAIK 402H for CSCE 489 with advance approval from both the Design Studio and Computer Engineering Senior Design instructors.</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">*** Double majors in electrical engineering may elect to take either of the senior design course sequences (CSCE 488 then CSCE 489 or ELEC 494 then ELEC 495). Students not taking both CSCE 230 and CSCE 488 must satisfy ACE outcome 8 with another course(s).</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Credit Hours Required 126</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required in their senior year to complete a written exit survey. Results of that participation will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">C- and D Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Applicants for formal admission to computer engineering must meet the usual college requirements plus a minimum grade rule on the following core courses (or their equivalents):</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Grades of C+ or higher in CSCE 155A, CSCE 156, CSCE 230, CSCE 230L, CSCE 235; ELEC 215, ELEC 235; MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 208; PHYS 211</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
