<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Culinary_Science-11</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="culinary-science-11">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Culinary Science</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Education &amp; Human Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEPARTMENT:</span><span class="generated-style"> Nutrition &amp; Health Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span><span class="generated-style"> Culinary Science </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span><span class="generated-style"> 2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Judy Hofeldt </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Culinary Science (Culinology®) option is the emerging discipline of the culinary arts, nutrition and the science of food. Culinology® is becoming a recognized and valued discipline that will significantly impact food research and development in the global market. Culinologists are skilled chefs who are creating a new generation of exciting, high-quality convenience food products. The food industry needs, and rewards, people who understand and can apply the principles of this specialty.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Area of Concentration (22 hrs) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Culinary Arts electives from an accredited Culinary Arts Institution</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional Requirements (58 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Nutrition and Health Sciences (23 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for NUTR courses.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">HRTM 173 Field Experience in Culinology® (1 hr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 244 Scientific Principles of Food Preparation (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 245 Scientific Principles of Food Preparation Lab (1 hr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 250 Human Nutrition &amp; Metabolism (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 253 Cultural Aspects of Food &amp; Nutrition (hours met in ACE) (0 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 344 Food &amp; Nutrition for Healthy Living (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 372 Food Safety &amp; Sanitation or BIOS 312 Fundamentals of Microbiology (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 441 Functional Properties of Food </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">&amp;/or</span><span class="generated-style"> FDST 448 Food Chemistry </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">&amp;/or</span><span class="generated-style"> NUTR 445 Experimental Foods (6 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 449 Culinology® Research Experience (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Food Science and Technology (9 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FDST 205 Food Composition &amp; Analysis (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FDST 403 Food Quality Assurance (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FDST 430 Sensory Evaluation (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FDST 460 Food Product Development Concepts </span><span class="requirement-ital">(hours met in ACE)</span><span class="generated-style"> (0 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Supporting Sciences (11 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 321 Elements of Biochemistry (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I </span><span class="requirement-ital">(hours met in ACE)</span><span class="generated-style"> (0 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II (4 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab (4 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Supporting Courses (9 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CEHS 200 Families, Schools, &amp; Communities</span><span class="list-ital"> (hours met in ACE) </span><span class="generated-style">(0 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 211 &amp; ECON 212 Principles of Macroeconomics &amp; Microeconomics</span><span class="list-ital"> (3 hours met in ACE) </span><span class="generated-style">(3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MATH 101 College Algebra (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="list-ital">If a student does not place into MATH 101, they must complete the appropriate course(s) plus complete MATH 101. If a student places above MATH 101, the student will take either MATH 101 or the MATH course they placed into.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 341 Marketing (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">STAT 218 Intro to Statistics </span><span class="list-ital">(hours met in ACE) </span><span class="generated-style">(0 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Processing Electives (6 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select two courses from: </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 210 Animal Products (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 310 Fresh Meats (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 410 Processed Meats (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FDST 363 Heat &amp; Mass Transfer (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FDST 405 Food Microbiology (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FDST 412 Cereal Technology (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FDST 420 Fruit &amp; Vegetable Technology (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FDST 429 Dairy Products Technology (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FDST 455 Microbiology of Fermented Foods (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 343 Meat Culinology® III: Foodservice Applications (3 hrs) </span><span class="list-ital">(Grade of C or better required in NUTR 343)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Electives (9 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Meat Culinology® Certificate Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Meat Culinology® Certificate program at UNL concentrates on meat because it is the center of most meals and is the major portion of the food budget in the food service industry. Proper handling and preparation is paramount to the success of a meal and a food establishment. The faculty at UNL who developed this program know that food industry professionals are busy. With little time to take courses on campus, the online Meat Culinology® Certificate program allows professionals the opportunity to advance their education and career by learning more about the science and art of meat. The six-course sequence will teach you everything from harvest to consumption of livestock and poultry. The Meat Culinology® Certificate program consists of six courses. Students must successfully complete all six courses in order to earn certification. Successful completion is considered an earned grade of ‘C’ or higher.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Meat Culinology® Certificate Program (18 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 210 Animal Products (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 213/NUTR 213 Meat Specification &amp; Procurement (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 310 Fresh Meats (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 343/ASCI 343 Meat Culinology® III: Foodservice Applications (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 410 Processed Meats (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 411 HACCP &amp; Food Safety Systems for the Food Industry (3 hrs)</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
