<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Economics (ASC)</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="economics-asc-">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Economics (ASC)</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Economics</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Roger Butters</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Scott M. Fuess, Jr.,</span><span class="generated-style"> 340 College of Business Administration Building</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Allgood, Anderson, Cushing, Edwards, Fuess, Hayden, MacPhee, May, Rosenbaum, Schmidt, van den Berg, Walstad</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Kim, McGarvey, Thompson</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Butters, Giertz</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Asarta</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE for economic majors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Completion of ECON 311 and ECON 312 is recommended before taking other 300- and 400-level courses.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Economic analysis is useful in many decisions made by individuals, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and governments. In addition to opportunities in teaching, economists are employed in many branches of government and on the staffs of corporations in manufacturing, insurance, banking, brokerage and other financial services. Economists often serve as consultants, either individually or in consulting firms. Today’s economists deal with problems ranging from monetary and fiscal policy, monopoly and competition, environmental improvement, labor relations, regional development, urban reconstruction, economic development and international business and finance. Economics is also a popular major for students planning to enter professional and graduate programs, particularly in law, foreign service, labor relations, or business administration.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The department of economics offers the opportunity for intensive study in 11 specialized economic areas: economic theory, comparative economic and regional development, econometrics, economic education, economic history, industrial organization and regulation, international trade and finance, institutional economics, labor economics, monetary economics, and public finance.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In planning a program of studies, students should consult a faculty adviser or talk to any member of the economics faculty who would be glad to make suggestions about complementary courses.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Order of Studies.</span><span class="generated-style"> Students who plan to take only one year of economics are advised to take ECON 211 and ECON 212, or ECON 210 and a 300-level course in economics. Either ECON 211 and ECON 212 or ECON 210 are prerequisite to most of the courses in the department. Students who major in economics will find it advantageous to take ECON 211 and ECON 212 in their sophomore year.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span><span class="generated-style"> The advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy are offered. For details of these programs see the Graduate Studies Bulletin. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This department participates in the program for International Studies. For a full description of the program, see “International Studies.”</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">An economics major must complete 30 credit hours of economics. These 30 hours must include:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 215 Statistics* 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 311 Intermediate Macroeconomics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 312 Intermediate Microeconomics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Economics 300- or 400-level courses 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Economics 400-level courses 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 30</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">*</span><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE for economics majors:</span><span class="generated-style"> STAT 218 may be substituted for ECON 215 if STAT 218 was completed before declaring economics as a major; otherwise student must take ECON 215.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Completion of ECON 311 and ECON 312 is recommended before taking other 300- and 400-level courses.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For all courses in the 300 series, junior standing and ECON 210 or ECON 211 are required with the exception of ECON 375, which has no prerequisite. ECON 211 and ECON 212 are required for ECON 303, ECON 311, ECON 312, ECON 321, ECON 340, ECON 388, and ECON 389. For all courses in the 400 series, except ECON 466 and ECON 467, junior standing and 12 hours in the social sciences including ECON 211 and ECON 212 are required as prerequisites. ECON 210 may be substituted for ECON 211 and ECON 212. Additional prerequisites may be in effect for some courses. See individual course listings.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Any student in any college at UNL may not take business courses in the College of Business Administration using a Pass/No Pass option, unless otherwise stated.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A:</span><span class="generated-style"> 18 hours</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan B:</span><span class="generated-style"> 12 hours</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
