<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>General Business Minor (ENGR)</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="general-business-minor-engr-">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name">General Business Minor (ENGR)</p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering </p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> General Business (Minor only) </p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 35-37</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
				<p class="title-2">This minor is for engineering majors ONLY.</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph">The College of Engineering enables its students to participate in this approved minor subject to the following conditions:</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">1. A minor will not reduce or alter the existing course or degree requirements for students electing to pursue a minor.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">2. A student’s minor program must be organized and approved by an adviser prior to the submission of the senior check to the department chair or head.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">3. The minor must be approved by the adviser, the department chair or head, the Dean and the cognizant program offering the minor.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">4. The College of Engineering will follow the “Plan A/B” format of the Arts and Sciences College in which a student pursuing a single minor must complete the “Plan A” requirements. A student pursuing a double (or greater) minor must fulfill either the “Plan A” or “Plan B” requirements for both minors depending on which plan is offered by the cognizant department.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">5. Minors on the Lincoln or Omaha campuses may be added by approval of the College of Engineering Curriculum Committee and faculty.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A only.</span> All courses must be taken for a letter grade.</p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Required Foundation Courses 21-26</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACCT 201 &amp; ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting I &amp; II (6 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ACCT 306 Survey of Accounting (4 cr) 4-6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 211 &amp; ECON 212 Principles of Macro &amp; Microeconomics (6 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ECON 210 Intro to Economics 5-6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">IMSE 321 Engineering Statistics &amp; Data Analysis (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">STAT 380 Statistics &amp; Applications (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ECON 215 Statistics (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">STAT 218 Intro to Statistics (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ELEC 305 Probability Theory &amp; Intro to Random Processes (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span> 3-6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">CSCE 155E Computer Science I: Systems Engineering Focus (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">CSCE 155N Computer Science I: Engineering &amp; Science Focus (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">CNST 112 Construction Communications (3 cr) &amp; CNST 131 Intro to Construction Industry (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Required Business Core Courses 12</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">FINA 361 Finance (3 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> IMSE 206 Engineering Economy I (3 cr) 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MRKT 341 Marketing 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">MNGT 350/MIST 350 Intro to Management Information Systems (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">MNGT 320 Principles of Management (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">MNGT 331 Operations &amp; Supply Chain Management (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">MNGT 360 Managing Behaviors in Organizations (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">300/400-level business course 3</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
