<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Global Securities Studies Minor</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="global-securities-studies-minor">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Global Security Studies Minor</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Global Security Studies (Minor only)</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Minor only</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 18</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair and Chief Adviser: Patrice McMahon </span><span class="generated-style">(politial science)</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Faculty: </span><span class="generated-style">Ganim (modern languages), Krone (communication studies), Minter (English), Narumalani (geography/School of Natural Resources), Thomas (history), White (political science)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The undergraduate global security studies minor (GSST) is an interdisciplinary program that provides undergraduates across campus (any department or college) with relevant knowledge of various aspects of global security and the theory and analytical skills necessary for dealing with global security studies issues. Students interested in global security issues, security-related job opportunities, or a desire to have a set of analytical skills relevant to global issues will benefit from the GSST. Students who have completed the GSST requirements will, upon graduation, receive a minor in global security studies.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The minor requires 18 credit hours of course work with a grade of B or better, a 3 credit hour capstone course (GSST 475) and an experiential learning internship (variable 1-3 credit hours) for a total of 22-24 credit hours.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Undergraduate Global Security Studies Minor (22-24 hours)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Four principles train students to analyze systematically and coherently global security issues, develop writing and critical thinking skills, negotiate multiple and competing interests, and develop in-depth knowledge and application in substantive international policy issue(s). </span><span class="basic-text-bold">Certain special topics courses not listed below that have a significant global security component may also be eligible for inclusion in a student’s minor program plan. Approval of chief adviser is required to include courses not listed below.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">1. CORE Courses 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Cover the theories, processes, models, and methods of global security studies and security policy analysis.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">POLS 160 International Relations 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">POLS 261 Conflict &amp; Conflict Resolution </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> POLS 263 Causes of War &amp; Peace 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">2. Writing and Analysis Courses 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Develop writing and critical thinking/analysis skills that are relevant to the intelligence community. Choose two of the following – one course from Writing and one course from Critical Thinking/Analysis for a total of 6 hours. No more than 3 hours of courses taken to meet any degree requirement may be used to meet the Rhetoric and Analysis requirements of 6 hours for the Global Security Studies minor.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Writing 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 151 Writing: Rhetoric as Argument</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">JOUR 102 The Art of Writing</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">JOUR 444 Science Writing</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Critical Thinking/Analysis 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">COMM 210 Communicating in Small Groups</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">COMM 211 Intercultural Communication</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">COMM 212 Debate</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">COMM 312 Argumentation</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 220 Elements of Ethics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 221 Political Philosophy</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 265 Philosophy of Religion</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">PSYC 350 Research Methods &amp; Data Analysis</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 205 Intro to Social Research I</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 206 Intro to Social Research II</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">3. Specialization 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Students will develop a plan of study in consultation with the global security studies minor coordinator. Courses will be selected from the areas below. (6 hours or two courses within a specialization are required. Students are responsible for checking and meeting prerequisites to some of the courses.)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Area A: Political/Economics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">POLS 362 Globalization, Human Rights, &amp; Diversity </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">POLS 470 International Human Rights</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">POLS 472 State Terror</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">POLS 476 Ethnic Conflict &amp; Identity</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">HIST 303 US Military History, 1607-1917</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">POLS 363 USA Foreign Policy</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">POLS 463 American Foreign Policy &amp; the Use of the Military</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 447 Political Geography</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">POLS 462 Security in the Post-Cold War Era</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">HIST 479/POLS 466 Pro-seminar in International Relations I</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">POLS 479 Insurgency, Guerilla Warfare, &amp; Terrorism</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ECON 321 Intro to International Economics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ECON 388 Comparative Economic Systems</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ECON 421 International Trade</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ECON 422 International Finance</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ECON 423 Economics of the Less Developed Countries</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ECON 487 Economies in Transition</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">POLS 272 Non-Western Politics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">POLS 274 Developmental Politics in East Asia</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">POLS 275 Post-Communist Politics &amp; Change</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">POLS 277 Latin American Politics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">POLS 281 Challenges to the State</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">HIST 326 Algeria &amp; France</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">POLS 372 Russian Politics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">POLS 376 Chinese Politics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Area B: Cultural</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">HIST 181/POLS 171 Intro to East Asian Civilization</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">HIST 326 Algeria &amp; France</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">HIST 429 History of Fascism in Europe</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">HIST 466 Early Modern China</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">HIST 467 History of China in the 20th Century</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">HIST 480 The Social &amp; Economic History of China since the Late Ming Era</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">RELG 108 World Religions</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">RELG 181 Judaism, Christianity &amp; Islam</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">RELG 208 Intro to Islam</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">RELG 217 Israel: The Holy Land</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">RELG 318 Islam in the Modern World</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">HIST 218 History of Islam</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">RELG 418 Fundamentalism, Religion &amp; Politics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 452 Sociology of Religion</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 353 Anthropology of War</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 366 Peoples &amp; Cultures of East Asia</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 420 Ethnic Identity &amp; Ethnic Conflict</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">COMM 312 Argumentation</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">COMM 371 Communication in Negotiation &amp; Conflict Resolution</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">COMM 375 Theories of Persuasion</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">COMM 487 Global Organizational Communication</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Area C: Languages </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">(Students may choose courses based on fluency level and input from the GSST adviser).</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Arabic</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ARAB 101 Beginning Arabic I</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ARAB 102* Beginning Arabic II</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ARAB 201* Second-Year Arabic I</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ARAB 202* Second-year Arabic II</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">* Proposals for designators for these courses will be submitted by Dr. Simon Wood from CRS to the CCAC on his return from a sabbatical in Spring 2011. If approved by faculty vote in April 2011, the courses will appear in the 2011-2012 bulletin. Presently, these courses are taught as RELG 398 Special Topics.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Chinese</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHIN 101 Beginning Chinese I</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHIN 102 Beginning Chinese II</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHIN 201 Second-Year Chinese I</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHIN 202 Second-Year Chinese II</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHIN 303 Third Year Chinese</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHIN 304 Advanced Conversation &amp; Composition Chinese</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Russian</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">RUSS 101 Beginning Russian I</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">RUSS 102 Beginning Russian II</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">RUSS 201 Second-Year Russian I</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">RUSS 202 Second-Year Russian II</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">RUSS 203 Composition &amp; Conversation I</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">RUSS 204 Composition &amp; Conversation II</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">RUSS 303 Advanced Conversation &amp; Composition: Russian Language through the Russian Press</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">RUSS 304 Advanced Composition, Grammar, &amp; Conversation</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Area D: Scientific/Technical</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 217 Mapping Science in the 21st Century</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 312 Intro to Geospatial Information Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 412 Intro to Geographic Information Systems</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 418 Intro to Remote Sensing</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 420 Digital Image Analysis of Remote Sensing Data</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 444 Geo-demographics &amp; GIS</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">4. Capstone Course and Experiential Learning: 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Global Experience; study abroad, internship, fieldwork. Students will take a one-semester global securities capstone course (GSST 475) followed by one of two options: 1) a study abroad and/or internship experience; or 2) a summer study-abroad experience. The global experience occurs after completing or during the last semester of course work for the GSST. The global security studies minor coordinator will help students find an appropriate study abroad or internship experience. Academic requirements for the internship will be set by the GSST adviser and it is preferred that that this experience be in the student’s area of expertise or associated with the language area of specialization (AREA C). Students must complete a report associated with their global experience.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GSST 475 Threats &amp; Solutions to Global Security in the 21st Century </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Students must meet with the GSST coordinator to set up a plan of study. For more information or to enroll in the minor program, contact Tyler White, Department of Political Science, 509 Oldfather Hall, 472-9443. Email: twhite2@unl.edu.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
