<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Insect_Science</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="insect-science">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name">Insect Science</p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Insect Science</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Insect Science</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 125</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Tiffany Heng-Moss</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator: Professor Tiffany Heng-Moss,</span> 201B Entomology Hall, thengmoss2@unl.edu</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Web Site:</span> http://entomology.unl.edu/insect_science/index.shtml</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The field of insect science encompasses the agricultural, biological, and environmental sciences related to insects and their interactions with humans. Insects and their relatives are the most abundant animals on earth, are commonly found in all habitats, and are essential in maintaining our ecosystem. Entomology offers numerous career opportunities in both basic and applied fields. </p>
				<p class="basic-text">The core curriculum provides students with a balanced education focusing on insect identification, biology, structure and function, behavior, ecology, and diversity, as well as courses in mathematics, science, and the humanities. In addition to the core, there are four different options from which students can select an area of focus which meets their own interest and career objectives. </p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1">Core Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The following basic courses are required for majors in insect science. In addition, students must select and meet the requirements of one of the options, depending on their own individual interests and career objectives.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The minimum requirements of CASNR reflect the common core of courses that apply to students pursuing degrees in the college. Students should work with an adviser to satisfy ACE outcomes 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and 10 with the college requirements.</p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">College Integrative Course 6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRI 103/NRES 103 Intro to Agriculture, &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 485 Current Issues in Insect Science<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 10)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Departmental Requirements 11</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 108 Insects, Science, &amp; Society 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 115 Insect Biology 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 116 Insect Identification 1</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 400 Biology &amp; Classification of Insects 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Experiential Learning for Career Development in Insect Science 4-5</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from the following four categories: Maximum of 3 hours from any one category.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 309 Career Experience</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 395A Research Experience (Arranged through adviser)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 395B Teaching Experience (Arranged through adviser)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 395E Extension Experience (Arranged through adviser)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Mathematics and Statistics <span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">(beyond college algebra)</span> 5</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Select from: MATH 102, MATH 103 <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 3)</span>, MATH 104, MATH 106, or STAT 218</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> <span class="requirement-ital">Proficiency at the college algebra level must be demonstrated either by a placement exam or through course work. If MATH 103 is taken, only 2 cr hrs can be counted toward this requirement</span>.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Communication 6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Written Communication <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 1)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> ENGL 150, ENGL 151, ENGL 254; JGEN 120, JGEN 200</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Communications and Interpersonal Skills <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> ALEC 102; COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 286</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Natural Sciences 12</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CASNR Approved Life Sciences <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 4)</span> 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L, BIOS 102, or BIOS 103</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 206 General Genetics <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> AGRO 315 Genetics 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Economics, Humanities and Social Sciences 18</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 211 or ECON 212 or AECN 141 <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 6)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Courses 12</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Select one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, and 9.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Select one elective in this area 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Major Requirements 62-63</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Option Requirements 41-44</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Free Electives 18-22</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Minimum Requirements for Graduation 125</p>
				<p class="title-1">IPM and Pest Science Option</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The IPM and Pest Science Option is designed for students considering careers in agriculture, agribusiness, consulting (agricultural, environmental, public health, urban), extension, state and federal government agencies (e.g., APHIS, EPA, USDA, and state departments of agriculture), horticulture, the military, food processing, and pest control. Examples of areas of focus include agronomic and horticultural pests, or urban pests. This option is also suitable as preparation for graduate studies leading to academic or research careers in applied entomology.</p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Departmental Courses 19-21</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 300 Toxins in the Environment 2</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 401 Insect Physiology 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 406 Insect Ecology 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 412 Entomology &amp; Pest Management 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select three of the following courses:</span> 7-9</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 109 Beekeeping (2 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 403 Management of Horticultural Crop Insects (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 308 Management of Field Crop Insects (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 407 Urban &amp; Industrial Entomology (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 409 Insect Control by Host-Plant Resistance (2 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 415 Medical Entomology (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Other Courses 23</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRI 115 Biotechnology: Food, Health, &amp; Environment 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRO 153 Soil Resources 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRO 426 Invasive Plants 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">NRES 211 Intro to Conservation Biology 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">NRES 220 &amp; NRES 222 Principles of Ecology &amp; Lab 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">PLPT 270 Biological Invaders 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">PLPT 369 Introductory Plant Pathology 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Option Requirements 42-44</p>
				<p class="title-1">Science Option</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The Insect Science Option is designed for students interested in careers focusing on the basic biology of insects and other arthropods. This option is suitable for students considering any career involving entomology (e.g., academia, research, medicine, forensics, environmental quality, conservation biology, or health-related fields), but is especially appropriate preparation for entry into professional programs such as veterinary and medical schools and with many graduate school disciplines. Students pursuing this option must choose BIOS 102 and BIOS 206 in meeting the entomology major requirements in natural sciences; additionally BIOS 103 is highly recommended. Completion of the Insect Science Option will also fulfill requirements for a minor in biological sciences.</p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Departmental Courses 13</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 401 Insect Physiology 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 406 Insect Ecology 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Entomology Elective 6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Select from any ENTO course beyond those meeting other major requirements.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Other Courses 30-31</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRI 115 Biotechnology: Food, Health &amp; Environment 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 205 Genetics, Molecular &amp; Cellular Biology Lab 2</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 207 Ecology &amp; Evolution 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Biological Sciences Electives 6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Select from any BIOS course beyond those meeting other major requirements.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOC 321 &amp; BIOC 321L Elements of Biochemistry &amp; Lab 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 251 Organic Chemistry I 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 141 Elementary General Physics I (5 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> PHYS 151 Elements of Physics (4 cr) 4-5</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Option Requirements 43-44</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Students interested in graduate or professional schools in biology, medicine, or veterinary science should take:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">An additional PHYS course and lab 5</p>
				<p class="title-1">Public Health Option</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The Public Health Option is designed for students interested in careers focusing on the association and impacts of insects and related pests on human and animal health. This may include their mere presence and nuisance value, the generation of allergens and subsequent irritation, insect and mite stings and bites, the direct invasion of tissues, and the transmission of disease-causing pathogens. This option is appropriate preparation for graduate study or for careers in academia, research, the military, medicine or health-related fields. Students pursuing this option must choose BIOS 102 and BIOS 206 in meeting the entomology major requirements in natural sciences; additionally a minor in biology can be met with the addition of BIOS 103 through free electives. </p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Departmental Courses 15-16</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 401 Insect Physiology 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 406 Insect Ecology 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select three of the following courses:</span> 8-9</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 109 Beekeeping (2 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 300 Toxins in the Environment (2 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 407 Urban &amp; Industrial Entomology (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 414 Forensic Entomology (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 415 Medical Entomology (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Other Courses 26</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 205 Genetics, Molecular, &amp; Cellular Biology Lab 2</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 206 General Genetics 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 207 Ecology &amp; Evolution 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from the following courses:</span> 12</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 102 Cell Structure &amp; Function (4 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 103 Organismic Biology (4 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L Human Physiology &amp; Lab (4 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 312 Fundamentals of Microbiology (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 314 Microbiology Lab (1 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 326 Biology of Viruses (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 385 Parasitology (4 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 443 Immunology (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">VBMS 424 Basic Molecular Infectious Diseases (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">VBMS 441 &amp; VBMS 441L Pathogenic Microbiology &amp; Lab (4 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Option Requirements 41-42</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Students interested in graduate or professional schools in biology, medicine, or veterinary science should take:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOC 321 &amp; BIOC 321L Elements of Biochemistry &amp; Lab 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 251 Organic Chemistry I 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 141 Elementary General Physics I 5</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 142 Elementary General Physics II 5</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</p>
				<p class="title-1">Forensic Entomology Option</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The Forensic Entomology Option is designed for students interested in the analysis of forensic evidence from crime scene investigations. This option also is suitable preparation for graduate study or careers in academia, research, or medicine (e.g. pathology). Students may choose to focus on crime scene investigation and/or forensic analysis. Students pursuing this option must choose BIOS 102 and BIOS 206 in meeting the entomology major requirements in natural sciences. Requirements for a minor in biology can be met with the addition of BIOS 103 and BIOS 207 through free electives.</p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Departmental Courses 15</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 300 Toxins in the Environment 2</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 401 Insect Physiology 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 406 Insect Ecology 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENTO 414 Forensic Entomology 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">FORS 120 Intro to Forensic Science 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Other Courses 6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 205 Genetics, Molecular &amp; Cellular Biology Lab 2</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">Students interested in Crime Scene Investigation should take the following courses:</span> 21</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">SOCI 209 Sociology of Crime 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CRIM 101 Survey of Criminal Justice 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ANTH 242 Intro to Physical Anthropology 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 103 Organismic Biology 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 214 Human Anatomy 5</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">NRES 220 Principles of Ecology 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">Students interested in Forensic Analysis should take the following courses:</span> 20</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOC 321 &amp; BIOC 321L Elements of Biochemistry &amp; Lab 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L Human Physiology &amp; Lab 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 312 &amp; BIOS 314 Fundamentals of Microbiology &amp; Lab 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 252 &amp; CHEM 254 Organic Chemistry II &amp; Lab 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Option Requirements 41-42</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT </p>
				<p class="title-1"> Insect Science Minor</p>
				<p class="basic-text">A minor in insect science will consist of at least 18 credit hours of entomology including at least 6 hours at the 300 level or above. BIOS 381 Invertebrate Zoology, and up to 3 hours of ENTO 496 Independent Study in Entomology, may be counted towards the minor requirements. The course of study leading to a minor in insect science must be developed in consultation with, and be approved by, an adviser in the Department of Entomology. Advisers for the minor are assigned by the Head of the Department of Entomology.</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
