<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Interior Design</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="interior-design">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Interior Design</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Interior Design</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Design</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 129</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISERS:</span><span class="generated-style"> Betsy Gabb &amp; Tom Allisma (pre-interior design); Assigned Faculty (interior design)</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Director: Betsy Gabb,</span><span class="generated-style"> 232 Architecture Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Ankerson, Gabb</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Hinchman</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Allisma, Ellsworth-Bahe</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chief Advisers:</span><span class="generated-style"> Pre-Interior Design: Betsy Gabb (bgabb1@unl.edu); Interior Design: Assigned Faculty</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Architecture also administers the interior design program. The four-year interior design program consists of a two-year pre-interior design program and a subsequent two-year bachelor of science in design (BSD-Interior Design) major. After completing a two-year curriculum in pre-interior design, students apply for admission into the College of Architecture’s interior design program. This interior design program is fully accredited by the Council Interior Design Accreditation (CIDA). The interior design program also offers a post-professional MS degree through the Graduate College. The graduate degree is also available through Extended Education and Outreach.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This four-year, undergraduate program is for the student interested in becoming a professional interior designer. The professional interior designer is a person qualified by education, experience, and examination to 1) identify, research, and creatively explore issues related to the quality of the interior environment; 2) perform design services in interior spaces, including programming, design analysis, space planning and aesthetics, using specialized knowledge of interior construction, building systems and components, building codes, equipment materials and furnishings; and 3) prepare drawings and documents describing the design of interior spaces in order to enhance and protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Upon successful completion of two years of pre-interior design studies and admission to the interior design program, students in the interior design program may enroll in the curriculum which leads to a bachelor of science in design (BSD-Interior Design) degree.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the 2-Year Bachelor of Science in Design Program–Interior Design</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Entrance Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To be considered for admission to the interior design program, applicants must:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Be enrolled in the College of Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Be in good scholastic standing</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Have completed the appropriate 1st and 2nd year pre-architecture or pre-interior design program of study</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Third Year Admission Process</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. An application for admission may be completed by filling out the online application. The program receives applications once a year in early February.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Applicants must submit a portfolio conforming to the defined criteria for the program applied for by the date posted at the completion of the spring semester.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Any applicant who has previously applied for admission and has not been accepted or who fails to enroll in the professional program in architecture or the interior design program after an acceptance must reapply in the regular manner. Students may apply for admission to the interior design program only three times.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Evaluation</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The faculty of the interior design program will carefully evaluate the applications for admission. The committee considers three elements in their evaluation: cumulative grade point average, a weighted grade point average, and the portfolio of student work. The weighted grade point average gives additional value to the applicant’s achievement in the required ARCH or IDES prefix course or transfer equivalents in the pre-professional curriculum.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Selection</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the interior design program will be awarded to applicants who show the greatest professional potential and have demonstrated scholastic achievement. The faculty reserves the right to not fill all available spaces in the professional program in the interior design program if determined that the remaining applicants have not performed at an acceptable level.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Completion of the pre-interior design program is required for admission to the Third Year of the interior design program. The pre-interior design curriculum can be referenced through the current listing of courses available in room 232 in the College of Architecture or on the Web page.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must earn at least a C (2.0) in all courses with an ARCH, IDES, or LARC prefix to earn credit toward their degree. Students will be required to retake all core required courses with a grade of C- or below, but will not be required to repeat courses that were taken as electives.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">None of the required classes offered in the professional program are offered Pass/No Pass, but a maximum of 12 Pass/No Pass credit hours of humanities, social sciences, or open electives may be taken from departments outside the College of Architecture.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Courses taken outside the architecture, landscape architecture, or interior design programs to fulfill the upper level outside elective requirement at the 800 level or 900 level, with or without a 400-level counterpart, in a minor, collateral, or supporting area of work, can be taken on a Pass/No Pass basis.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Professional Program, Architecture, Landscape Architecture and Interior Design</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the first year are required to maintain both a semester and cumulative grade point average at or above 2.0. The standard rises to a grade point average of 2.6 in the second year. Admission into the third year of both programs requires a cumulative grade point average of 2.6. The College places students who fail to meet these standards on academic probation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Third and Fourth Year, Interior Design and Landscape Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the third and fourth year of the BSD program are required to maintain a 2.6 cumulative grade point average to remain in good academic standing. The program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
