<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Latin American Studies</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="latin-american-studies">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Latin American Studies</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Latin American Studies</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes–Chicano Studies; Latin American Studies</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> James Garza</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Faculty:</span><span class="generated-style"> Ari (history/ethnic studies), Cantarero (community and regional planning), Carlo (psychology), Carranza (sociology/ethnic studies), Castro (English/ethnic studies), Ceballos (sociology), Garcia (curriculum and instruction), Garza (history/ethnic studies), Hagewen (sociology), Hames (anthropology and geography), Lopez (curriculum and instruction), Mason (agronomy), Montes (English/ethnic studies), Myers (State Museum/anthropology and geography), Nickel (modern languages and literatures), Osorio (veterinary science), Pereira (modern languages and literatures), Van Den Berg (economics), Wals (political science), Walters (agronomy)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Latino and Latin American Studies includes a major and minor in Latin American Studies and a minor in Chicano Studies.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The major and minor in Latin American Studies are designed to provide a sound basis for undergraduate students who intend to seek employment with governmental agencies and private enterprises with operations in Latin America, as well as those who decide to undertake graduate study in some academic discipline with emphasis in this area. The Chicano Studies minor focuses on people of Latin American origin or descent living in the U.S.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Many students who major in Latin American Studies carry a double major with Spanish, history, political science, economics, international studies, or international business, or have chosen to minor in one of those fields</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The University of Nebraska–Lincoln and the University of Nebraska at Omaha are cooperating with the Latin American Studies major. UNO students may complete their course requirements by attending classes at UNL. UNL students may take courses offered at UNO to meet some requirements for a major in Latin American Studies. Please note that UNL residency requirements still apply. Students should check with their adviser for information on UNO equivalent courses or other courses that may apply to the Latin American Studies major. Associate Professor Lourdes Gouviea, Director of the Office of Latino and Latin American Studies at UNO, is the UNO campus coordinator for our Latin American Studies Program.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To complete a major in Latin American Studies, a student is expected to take at least 33 credit hours as described below. All students should have reasonable fluency in either Spanish and/or Portuguese.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The major will include:</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">A. </span><span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">At least 9 hours selected from the following courses:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LAMS 311 Representative Spanish-American Authors I (SPAN 311) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LAMS 312 Representative Spanish-American Authors II (SPAN 312) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LAMS 331 Latin American Civilization (SPAN 331) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LAMS 459 Spanish-American Poetry (SPAN 459) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LAMS 460 Spanish-American Novel (SPAN 460) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LAMS 462 Spanish-American Short Story (SPAN 462) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LAMS 470 Women Writers of Spanish America (SPAN 470) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SPAN 203 Intensive Conversation (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SPAN 300 Advanced Writing &amp; Reading for Comprehension (6 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SPAN 303 Advanced Reading for Comprehension (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SPAN 304 Advanced Writing (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SPAN 305 Literary Analysis in Spanish (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SPAN 317 Intro to Linguistics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SPAN 319 Spanish Phonetics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">B. </span><span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">Courses in at least three departments from the following:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AHIS 256 Latin American Art (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AHIS 457 Colonial Art of Latin America (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 321 Intro to International Economics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 322 Intro to Development Economics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 323 The Economic Development of Latin America (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ETHN 171 Power &amp; Culture in Latin America (HIST 171) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ETHN 245D Chicana and/or Chicano Literature (ENGL 245D) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ETHN 350 Peoples &amp; Cultures of Native Latin America (ANTH 350) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ETHN 370 Colonial Mexico (HIST 370) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ETHN 371 Modern Mexico (HIST 371) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 378 Geography of Latin America (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 271 The Latin American Colonies (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 272 The Latin American Republics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 372 Revolutions in 20th Century Latin America (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 471 Latin America &amp; the Outside World (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 473 Spanish-American Colonial Institutions (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 475 History of Brazil (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">LAMS 277 Latin American Politics (ETHN 277/POLS 277) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 428 International Management (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 453 International Marketing (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">POLS 365 The United States &amp; Latin America (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 433 Comparative Education (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">C. Individualized Courses of Instruction.</span><span class="generated-style"> A total of 9 hours of individualized course work may count towards the major, but no more than 6 hours of one particular course (i.e., LAMS 399 or LAMS 399H) will count toward the major.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">D. 3-6 hours Interdisciplinary Pro-seminar</span><span class="generated-style"> 478/878 that is cross-listed in 7 departments at UNL (anthropology, educational psychology, geography, history, modern languages, political science and sociology).</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">E. Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required to submit to the undergraduate adviser a copy of the semester project completed for the Latin American Studies Pro-seminar. The course instructor will inform majors of the deadline for submission.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Results of participation in this assessment activity will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">18 hours: 6 in modern languages and literatures as in Group A courses under the major requirements, 12 in social sciences as in Group B and C courses under the major requirements above. No more than 3 credits of LAMS 399 will count toward the minor. Minors may not take LAMS 399H for credit.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">UNL and UNO are also jointly cooperating in our Latin American Studies minor. See discussion above.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for the Minor in Chicano Studies</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">18 hours from the following courses </span><span class="basic-text-ital">(other courses may be used with the approval of the faculty adviser)</span><span class="generated-style">:</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ETHN 171 Power &amp; Culture in Latin America (HIST 171) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ETHN 212 Intro to Cultural Anthropology (ANTH 212) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ETHN 217 Nationality &amp; Race Relations (SOCI 217) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ETHN 218 Chicanos in American Society (SOCI 218) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ETHN 245D Chicana and/or Chicano Literature (ENGL 245D) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ETHN 310 Psychology of Immigration (PSYC 310) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ETHN 330 Multicultural Education (TEAC 330) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ETHN 350 Peoples &amp; Cultures of Native Latin America (ANTH 350) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ETHN 357 History &amp; Culture of the Mexican-American (HIST 357) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ETHN 370 Colonial Mexico (HIST 370) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ETHN 371 Modern Mexico (HIST 371) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ETHN 481 Minority Groups (SOCI 481) (3 cr)</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
