<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Mathematics-11</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="mathematics-11">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Mathematics</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Gordon Woodward</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: John Meakin,</span><span class="generated-style"> 206 Avery Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Vice Chair:</span><span class="generated-style"> John Orr</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Avalos, Avramov, Deng, Dunbar, Erbe, Harbourne, Hermiller, Iyengar, Lewis, Logan, Manderscheid, Marley, Meakin, Orr, Papick, Peterson, Pitts, Rammaha, Rebarber, Skoug, J. Walker, M. Walker, R. Wiegand, S. Wiegand, Woodward</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Brittenham, Chouinard, Cohn, Donsig, Foss, Hines, Ledder, Radcliffe</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Cooper, Curto, Hartke, Itskov, Kelley, Radu, Tenhumberg, Toundykov</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A strong mathematics background is essential to an increasing variety of careers. The Department of Mathematics encourages students to select a coherent body of courses in mathematics and in other disciplines that are consistent with their academic and career goals.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department of Mathematics offers four options for the major in mathematics. Each student majoring in mathematics should select an option that meets their academic and career needs by completing a Program Declaration form in consultation with the Department’s Chief Undergraduate Adviser. Ideally, this should be done prior to completing two mathematics courses beyond the calculus sequence. As appropriate, students can change their Program Declaration to select a different option or modify the program of study subject to the approval of the Chief Undergraduate Adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Students with previous credit in any calculus course may not register for or earn credit in MATH 100A, MATH 101, MATH 102, MATH 103, or MATH 104, without first receiving special written permission from the Chief Undergraduate Adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work. </span><span class="generated-style">The advanced degrees of master of arts, master of science, master of arts (or science) for teachers, and doctor of philosophy are offered by the Department of Mathematics. For details of these programs, see the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All options for the mathematics major require: 1)A complete calculus sequence: MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 208 or MATH 108H, MATH 109H, or equivalent; 2) Twenty-four hours (8 courses) selected from the Advanced Mathematics Course List; 3) An approved Program Declaration form.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> In order to assist the department in evaluating its programs, all majors should plan to participate in a) an exit interview, and b) an exit exam, during their last semester before graduation. Please make arrangements with the Chief Undergraduate Adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Option C (Concentration)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This option is ideal for students wishing to combine a strong mathematics education with a coherent body of course work in another discipline. Specific requirements above calculus are as follows:</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The 8 required mathematics courses must be distributed as follows:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 314</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Either MATH 221 or MATH 380</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Either MATH 310 or MATH 325</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">At least three advanced mathematics courses at the 400 level</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Two additional advanced mathematics courses</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Any Plan A minor or an approved 18-hour concentration outside of mathematics.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> One 400-level course in the area of the concentration may be substituted for one of the required 400-level advanced mathematics courses, provided the course makes significant use of advanced mathematics. The Chief Undergraduate Adviser must approve the substitution.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Option E (Education)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This option is ideal for students interested in teaching mathematics at the secondary level. Specific requirements above calculus are as follows:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 221, MATH 310, MATH 314, MATH 350, MATH 380, MATH 405, MATH 407, MATH 408</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">An education minor or an approved 18-hour concentration in education</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Option R (Research Experience)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This option is recommended for students interested in independent work and for students planning to pursue graduate work in mathematics. Specific requirements above calculus are as follows:</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The eight required mathematics courses must be distributed as follows:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 221, MATH 310, MATH 314, and MATH 325</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">At least three advanced mathematics courses at the 400 level</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">One more advanced mathematics course</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">An approved undergraduate research experience. A variety of options exist for meeting this requirement. They include 1) research experiences such as an REU or UCARE that leads to a project paper, 2) a senior honors thesis or a thesis approved for graduation with distinction, or 3) a grade of P in MATH 496, Undergraduate Research Seminar (this course would be in addition to the advanced mathematics courses requirement above). To satisfy this requirement, students must file with the Chief Undergraduate Adviser a) a “Research Experience” contract that is approved by the Chief Undergraduate Adviser and b) the thesis, research papers, or projects as required by the contract. Visit with the Chief Undergraduate Adviser for more information.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Option S (Statistics)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This option is recommended for students interested in a mathematics major and a strong body of course work in statistics. Specific requirements above calculus are as follows:</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The eight required mathematics courses must be distributed as follows:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 314 and MATH 380/STAT 380</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 310 or MATH 325</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">At least three advanced mathematics courses at the 400 level. </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">NOTE: </span><span class="generated-style">For the purpose of this requirement, one 400-level statistics course may be substituted for one 400-level advanced mathematics course.</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Two more advanced mathematics courses</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Nine hours of statistics numbered 300 or above in addition to MATH 380/STAT 380</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Under any option, students may substitute a more advanced course in the same area for a required mathematics course. Interested students should visit with the Chief Undergraduate Adviser for more information about this option.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The prerequisites listed for a course may be replaced by equivalent preparation. One prerequisite for all Advanced Mathematics courses is successful completion of MATH 106-MATH 107-MATH 208 (or MATH 108H-MATH 109H) or equivalent. Additional specific prerequisites, if any, are listed with the course. Two courses past calculus are required prerequisites for all 400-level mathematics courses. All topics, independent study, reading courses and seminars require permission of the instructor before registering; and these courses do no</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For majors or minors, no calculus course can be taken Pass/No Pass. (Students in violation of this should consult with the Chief Undergraduate Adviser for possible alternative requirements.) For majors or minors, at most 3 hours of the advanced courses may be taken as Pass/No Pass.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5 in those courses used to satisfy the Advanced Mathematics course requirements. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A.</span><span class="generated-style"> A complete calculus sequence plus two advanced mathematics courses.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan B.</span><span class="generated-style"> A complete calculus sequence.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Pass/No Pass.</span><span class="generated-style"> For majors or minors, no calculus course can be taken Pass/No Pass. (Students in violation of this should consult with the Chief Undergraduate Adviser for possible alternative requirements.) For majors or minors, at most 3 hours of the advanced courses may be taken as Pass/No Pass.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
