<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Mechanical Engineering</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="mechanical-engineering">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Mechanical Engineering</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Mechanical Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 129</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">minimum cumulative gpa: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Jeffrey Shield</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Barton, Cole, Farritor, Gogos, Reid, Robertson, Shield, To</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Nelson, Zhang</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Gu, Huang</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturers:</span><span class="generated-style"> Coen-Brown, Dick, Halvorsen</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Mechanical engineering is concerned with all forms of energy conversion and transmission; the flow of fluids and heat; the development, design, and operation of machinery and equipment, material structure and properties; and transportation processes. The course of study is designed to give the student fundamental preparation to enter the fields of research, design, operation, production, sales, or management.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department of Mechanical Engineering is structured into three major academic areas: thermal-fluid science engineering, systems and design engineering, and materials science engineering. From these three major areas, a student can develop an emphasis area of study by utilizing the various technical elective courses in the major academic areas or an emphasis area could be directed toward studies in aerospace engineering, automotive engineering, robotics, biomedical engineering, computational methods, and others depending upon the technical courses available and the interest of the student.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Mission and Objectives</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Mission Statement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The mission of the Department of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Nebraska is to impact society locally and globally through our educational programs, research, and service, developing knowledge and sharing our expertise in the best traditions of land-grant universities. We strive for excellence in teaching and learning at both the undergraduate and graduate levels, seek to develop novel educational opportunities, grow our public and private support for research and education, and expand our scholarship, outreach and service.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Educational Objectives</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Within a few years of graduation, our mechanical engineering graduates are expected to:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. have started successful careers based on their education or have completed a professional degree or a graduate degree in engineering or related field;</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. have begun life-long learning and development in order to remain current in their knowledge and skills and to advance in their careers; and</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. have established a record of professionalism, leadership, respect and integrity in working to serve humanity and to use resources responsibly.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Student Outcomes</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The educational program leading to the BS in mechanical engineering ensures that students attain the following outcomes:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an ability to function on multidisciplinary teams;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an ability to communicate effectively;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">the broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a recognition of the need for, and an ability to engage in, life-long learning;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a knowledge of contemporary issues;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering practice.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for the Degree (Lincoln campus)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">First Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 111 Chemistry for Engineering &amp; Technology 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 109 and 110 may be substituted for CHEM 111. Only 4 credits count toward graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Electives 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Second Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 155N Computer Science I: Engineering and Science Focus 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 130 Intro to CAD 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 221 General Physics Lab I 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Or, instead, PHYS 222 General Physics Lab II (1 cr) may be taken in the Third Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Third Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 223 Engineering Statics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 206 Engineering Economy I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fourth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 325 Mechanics of Elastic Bodies 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 373 Engineering Dynamics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 200 Engineering Thermodynamics 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">METL 360 Elements of Materials Science 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fifth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 211 Elements of Electrical Engineering I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 231 Electrical Engineering Lab 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 314 Applied Linear Algebra (Matrix Theory) 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 310 Fluid Mechanics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 342 Kinematics &amp; Dynamics of Machinery 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Communication Studies Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course from the following: COMM 210, COMM 283, or COMM 286 (ACE 2).</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Sixth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 321 Engineering Statistics &amp; Data Analysis </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> STAT 380 Statistics &amp; Applications 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 300 Thermal Systems &amp; Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 343 Elements of Machine Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 350 Intro to Dynamics &amp; Control of Engineering Systems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 380 Mechanical Engineering Measurements 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Seventh Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 370 Manufacturing Methods &amp; Processes 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 420 Heat Transfer 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 446 Mechanical Engineering Design I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">The capstone design sequence must be taken in the order shown in the curriculum and should be taken in the last two semesters of the program (MECH 446 and MECH 447).</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 488 Kinematics &amp; Machine Design Lab 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Mechanical Engineering Technical Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Design and technical electives must be chosen from a list of approved 400-level mechanical engineering elective courses. Consult adviser for suggested choices.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Eighth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 400 Professional Ethics 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 447 Mechanical Engineering Design II 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 487 Thermal Fluids Lab 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Mechanical Engineering Design Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Design and technical electives must be chosen from a list of approved 400-level mechanical engineering elective courses. Consult adviser for suggested choices.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Senior Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Senior electives may be either another mechanical engineering technical elective, another mechanical engineering design elective, or, with prior written approval of your adviser, a 300 or higher level engineering, science, or math course.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style"> Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Credit Hours Required 129</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Laboratories</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Brief descriptions of some of the laboratories in the department are given below.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Design, Modeling, Measurements, and Controls Laboratories.</span><span class="generated-style"> Several laboratories in these areas support the undergraduate and graduate work in mechanical system design, machinery dynamics, basic measurements, and mechanical system controls. The laboratories contain a wide variety of instrumentation equipment, bench models of control mechanisms and systems, analog computers for simulation studies, shaker system and dynamic recording equipment for machinery vibrations, microcomputers, and extensive areas for project activity.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Student and Staff Research Laboratories.</span><span class="generated-style"> These laboratories, extensions of those described above, are equipped for research in the fields of fluid mechanics, heat transfer, thermodynamics, turbulence, flow visualization, computational fluid mechanics, measurements, turbomachinery and engine research, combustion, metallurgy and corrosion, microcharacterization of materials, mechanical design, dynamics, and controls.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Materials Laboratories.</span><span class="generated-style"> Undergraduate facilities are available to support instruction in modern metallographic techniques, X-ray diffraction methods, mechanical testing of materials, materials processing, thermal analysis, heat treatment of ferrous and nonferrous materials, and the evaluation of materials-environment compatibility. Additional research facilities are available to advanced undergraduate and graduate students in the area of powder metallurgy, thin film structures, gas analysis and corrosion of metallic and nonmetallic materials, analytical electron microscopy, and the study of phase transformations in alloys.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Thermodynamics, Fluid Dynamics, and Heat Transfer Laboratories.</span><span class="generated-style"> These laboratories are equipped with a variety of facilities for demonstrating of and experimenting with the basic concepts of fluid flow and energy conversion. Available equipment includes wind tunnels, engines, turbines, pumps, compressors, a complete air-conditioning unit, heat exchangers, thermal radiation systems, and numerous fluid flow devices.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
