<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Meteorology-Climatology</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="meteorology-climatology">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Meteorology–Climatology</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Meteorology-Climatology</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Clint Rowe</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: David Watkins,</span><span class="generated-style"> 214 Bessey</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Fielding, Fritz, Goble, Grew, Harwood, Holmes, Hu, Hunt, Loope, Oglesby, Pederson, Rowe, Watkins, Zlotnik</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Anderson, Frank, Joeckel, Kettler, Rack</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bathke, Burberry, Gates, Houston, Secord, Wang, Weber</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Undergraduate Adviser:</span><span class="generated-style"> Clint Rowe, 305C Bessey Hall, 402-472-2418</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences offers a variety of courses leading to the bachelor of arts and bachelor of science degrees in geology and the bachelor of science degree in meteorology-climatology. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span><span class="generated-style"> The Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences offers the master of sciences, and doctor of philosophy degrees. For details see the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Major in Meteorology-Climatology</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences offers a program leading to the bachelor of science degree in meteorology-climatology. This program combines basic atmospheric science and climatology courses with a rigorous training in mathematics, computer science, and physics. This comprehensive degree program will prepare students for possible employment in state, federal, and private agencies which are involved in the many applied fields of meteorology-climatology. This series of courses will also assist the student in preparation for graduate-level studies in meteorology-climatology. The meteorology-climatology degree program fulfills the recommended curriculum of the American Meteorological Society (AMS) and the University Corporation for Atmospheric Research (UCAR). The degree program also meets or exceeds the minimum hiring requirements of the National Weather Service. The University of Nebraska–Lincoln is a member of UCAR.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The following curriculum represents the minimum requirements for a major in meteorology-climatology. </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">GROUP A: Core Courses</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">METR 200, METR 205, METR 223, METR 311, METR 312, METR 323, METR 341, either METR 442 or METR 470, and one of the following: METR 463, METR 464, or METR 465</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">GROUP B: Electives</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">At least 12 hours of 400-level METR courses not used to fulfill Group A </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">GROUP C: Required Related Courses</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 208, MATH 221; STAT 380; PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 221, PHYS 212; CHEM 109; CSCE 155N</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> A minor in math can be obtained with the completion of the required mathematics and statistics courses. A minor in broadcasting is also available with additional course work from the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its program in meteorology/climatology, each major during their last semester prior to graduation, will participate in an exit survey to gather information about the program from the student’s perspective. The undergraduate adviser will inform students of the scheduling and format of the assessment activities. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Results of participation in this assessment activity will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For an emphasis in meteorology students should take METR 442 as their capstone course (ACE 10) from Group A and choose appropriate meteorology courses from Group B. For an emphasis in climatology students should take METR 470 as their capstone course (ACE 10) and choose appropriate climate courses from Group B. It should be noted that these are suggestions only and that students should meet with the Undergraduate Adviser to develop a personalized plan that will fulfill Group B requirements and match their career goals.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Meteorology emphasis.</span><span class="generated-style"> METR 200, METR 205, METR 311, METR 323, METR 341, and one course from the following 400-level meteorology courses : METR 415, METR 428, METR 442, METR 443, METR 454, METR 463, METR 464, METR 465</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Climatology emphasis.</span><span class="generated-style"> METR 200, METR 475, and 4 courses from the following 400-level climate courses: METR 408, METR 450, METR 454, METR 470, METR 478, METR 483, METR 487.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
