<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Music Education</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="music-education">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Music Education</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Fine &amp; Performing Arts</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Music Education</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Music Education</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Robert Woody</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: John W. Richmond,</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 Westbrook Music Building</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Nierman</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Fuelberth, Moore, Woody</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice: </span><span class="generated-style">Bazan</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students wanting to teach music in K-12 schools should pursue a bachelor of music education degree. This degree leads to an endorsement (certification) in vocal and instrumental music.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Degree at a Glance</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">ACE Requirements 30</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACE Outcome 6 must be MUED 244</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACE Outcome 7 must be MUNM 280</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACE Outcome 9 must be SOCI 217 or TEAC 330</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACE Outcome 10 must be MUED 403</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Library 110 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Electives 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Any course that is not from music or education.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Music Core 27</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Professional and Music Education Requirements 41</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Music K-12 Endorsement Requirements 29</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Hours Required for Graduation 125</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Major/Department Admission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A performance audition is required for acceptance as music education major. Auditions are generally held in January and February. The School of Music should be contacted for audition dates and other details.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A three-year sequence of courses called the Music Core Curriculum is at the heart of the School of Music instructional program. Music Core Curriculum courses may not be taken for a Pass/No Pass grade.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The first year of study provides, within a comprehensive framework, a foundation for the successful study of music in an academic environment. Courses include an historical overview and concentrate on music fundamentals, keyboard and aural skills, and conducting. Courses are taken concurrently in each of two semesters beginning with the fall semester. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">BME Music Education </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Core Curriculum 27</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUSC 64 Senior Assessment 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUSC 101 Intro to Music 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUSC 131 Keyboard Skills I 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUSC 132 Keyboard Skills II 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUSC 165 Musicianship I 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUSC 165A Musicianship I Lab 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUSC 166 Musicianship II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUSC 166A Musicianship II Lab 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUSC 265 Musicianship III 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUSC 265A Musicianship III Lab 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUSC 266 Musicianship IV 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUSC 266A Musicianship IV Lab 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUSC 274 Beginning Conducting 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUSC 365 Music History and Literature I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUSC 366 Music History and Literature II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUSR 68 Recital Attendance (7 semesters) 0</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Students preparing for teaching careers will enroll in the following professional courses. Careful planning for the sequencing of these courses is of utmost importance. Students must consult their adviser regularly to be sure their programs are properly scheduled.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">See below for additional teacher certification information.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Professional and Music Education Requirements 41</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUED 201 Intro to Music Education 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUED 244 Music Learning &amp; Development 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUED 297 Professional Practicum Experience 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Admission to the Music Teacher Education Endorsement Program is required prior to the following:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUED 343 Music Composition Methods 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUED 344 General Music Methods 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUED 345 Instrumental Music Methods 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUED 346 Choral Music Methods 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUED 374 Advanced Conducting 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUED 397A Practicum Experience: General Music 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUED 397B or MUED 397D Practicum Experience: Instrumental/Choral 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUED 401 Special Issues in Music Education 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUED 403 Student Teaching Seminar 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUED 470 Music for the Exceptional Child 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUED 497D or MUED 497T Student Teaching: Elementary/Secondary 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUED 497D or MUED 497T Student Teaching: Elementary/Secondary 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUED 497Y Student Teaching: Mainstreaming 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUED 497Z Student Teaching: Multicultural 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Music K-12 Endorsement Requirements 29</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUAP Applied Area (2 credits each semester) 14</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUAP 231 &amp; MUAP 232 or demonstrated proficiency 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUAP 235, MUAP 236, MUAP 237, MUAP 238, MUAP 239, MUAP 240 Instrumental Skills Classes 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUDC Ensembles </span><span class="requirement-ital">(see School of Music Handbook)</span><span class="generated-style"> 7</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUSR 90 Sophomore or Junior Recital in Applied Music </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> MUSR 91 Senior Recital in Applied Music 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">(Music education students cannot present student recitals during student teaching.)</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for Continuing Study Toward a Music Degree</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Music education majors are required to demonstrate adequate skills in applied music, functional keyboard, theory and sight singing before they may continue toward the completion of a degree. The following prerequisites are in place to secure this requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Applied Music–Upper Divisional Qualifying Jury</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Music majors must pass the </span><span class="basic-text-bold">Upper Divisional Qualifying Jury</span><span class="generated-style"> (UDQJ) to be admitted into 300-level applied music. The UDQJ is usually taken in the fourth semester of applied study.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Part I – Basic Skills</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Faculty evaluate the student’s minimal capabilities, including the ability to sight read and perform scales and arpeggios, to determine if the student may continue as a music major.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Part II - Musicianship</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Faculty evaluate the student’s performance to determine if the student may continue as a music major.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Evaluation</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The UDQJ is judged Pass/No Pass, with pass meaning that the student’s basic musical skills and musicianship are judged to be at least minimal for his/her instrument. The jury members in each area will use a general consensus approach in determining Pass/No Pass. A no pass on the UDQJ will indicate an interpretation by the faculty that the student has not completed the requirements for the Upper Divisional Qualifying Jury, resulting in a formal grade of </span><span class="basic-text-bold">incomplete</span><span class="generated-style">. The student then has two additional juries to remove the incomplete. The student may continue to register for applied study at the 200 level for a maximum of two semesters until the incomplete is removed. After one year, the incomplete will expire, causing the grade to revert to a D or F. If the student passes the re-take before the beginning of the 2nd week of classes, he/she will be permitted to register for 300-level applied music courses for that semester.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> A re-examination will be scheduled only during the first week of classes following a semester in which the UDQJ was failed or during regular scheduled jury times at the end of a semester.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The status of music major is provisional, pending a satisfactory completion of the UDQJ. The result of the UDQJ is validated on the </span><span class="basic-text-bold">UDQJ JURY</span><span class="generated-style"> form with faculty signatures, and filed in the music office.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All courses taken to fulfill music major or minor requirements must be taken for a grade (except those only offered as Pass/No Pass). </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students must earn grades of C or better in these courses. Any course in which a student earns a grade of C- or below must be repeated in order to count toward the requirement.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules, Transfer Credit used in Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The following will be used by advisers as guidelines for the evaluation of transfer credits that are less than five years old:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">If a transfer student has successfully completed (grade C or above) approved transfer credits that are </span><span class="bullet-1-bold">equivalent</span><span class="generated-style"> to NU area requirements in terms of number of credit hours and scope of content, that area will be considered completed at the discretion of the chief degree program adviser.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">For approved transfer credits which are </span><span class="bullet-1-bold">lacking equivalency</span><span class="generated-style"> in either number of credit hours, scope of content, or grade received to NU area requirements in applied music, music theory, sight singing/aural skills, and keyboard skills, the number of transfer credits accepted and placement in the NU area will be determined by audition/proficiency tests administered by designated area faculty.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">For approved transfer credits that are </span><span class="bullet-1-bold">lacking equivalency</span><span class="generated-style"> in other music areas (history and ensembles) the number of transfer credits accepted will be determined by the chief degree program adviser.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All music course work that is </span><span class="basic-text-bold">more than five years old</span><span class="generated-style"> must be validated by an audition or competency examination given by designated area faculty.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Ensembles</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">MUDC/MUCO</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Music Ensembles for Degree Credit (MUDC) are exclusively for music majors and minors to fulfill major and minor degree requirements. Music Ensembles for Elective Credit Only (MUCO) are for all other students, and music majors and minors who register for more than one ensemble per semester. All students (full-time music majors, music minors, students registered for applied music, and students with majors or minor outside music) participating in an ensemble in a given semester must register for a minimum of 1 MUDC or MUCO credit. Students participating in more than one ensemble during the same semester may register for zero credit for the additional ensemble(s) using a MUCO ensemble number. All students who do not take applied lessons for credit in a given semester and are in an ensemble must register for the ensemble MUDC or MUCO for credit. No zero credit enrollment will be allowed for such students. Ensemble registrations may be repeated for credit. Ensembles taken in excess of degree requirements will only count as electives.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">First Year/First Semester Student Ensemble Registration Policy</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All string majors must register for Symphony Orchestra (MUDC 247).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All wind and percussion majors must register for Symphonic Band (MUDC 248B or MUCO 248B) or Jazz Ensemble I (MUDC 253A or MUCO 253A).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All voice majors and all piano, organ, guitar, harp, harpsichord, and composition majors must register for Varsity Choir (MUDC 243) or University Chorale (MUDC 246).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All music minors (any applied emphasis) registered for applied music must register for an applied related ensemble (Group I, IA, or II) selected from the List of Approved Ensembles.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for Majors</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Every full-time music major (12 credit hours or more) enrolled in applied music lessons must perform in an ensemble from the List of Approved Ensembles (BA/BM keyboard and guitar players may also use MUDC 440A, MUDC 440B, or MUDC 352) each semester. Students who have not fulfilled ensemble degree requirements should register for one (and only one) MUDC ensemble per semester. The ensembles listed under the MUDC listing are the only ensembles that will fulfill the degree requirements. Only 1 credit under the MUDC listing may be taken per semester. Students may register for additional ensembles using the MUCO listing. Students in the music education degree program are exempt from ensemble participation during the semester in which they student teach. After the student has completed the minimum ensemble requirement for a degree, the student may participate in any ensembles listed below in the List of Approved Ensembles (plus MUDC 440A, MUDC 440B, or MUDC 352 for keyboard, composition, or guitar students).</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Bachelor of Music Education</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-ital">(See following List of Approved Ensembles)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Vocal Emphasis</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">1 credit Varsity Chorus (MUDC 243) or University Chorale (MUDC 246)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">4 credits from Vocal Group I or IA</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">1 credit from Instrumental Group II and 1 credit from Instrumental or Vocal Group II</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Instrumental Emphasis (winds, strings, percussion)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">1 credit Varsity Chorus (MUDC 243) or University Chorale (MUDC 246)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">4 credits from Instrumental Group I or IA (wind and percussion majors: min 3 cr in Wind ensemble, Symphonic Band, or Symphony Orchestra; string majors: min 3 cr in Symphony Orchestra)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">2 credits from Vocal or Instrumental Group II</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Piano, Organ, Guitar, Harp, Harpsichord, Composition Emphasis</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">1 credit Varsity Chorus (MUDC 243) or University Chorale (MUDC 246)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">4 credits from Vocal or Instrumental Group I or IA</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">1 credit from Vocal Group II and 1 credit from Instrumental Group II</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">List of Approved Ensembles</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Instrumental (MUDC)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Group I: Symphony Orchestra (MUDC 247 or MUDC 447), Wind Ensemble (MUDC 248A or MUDC 448A), Jazz Ensemble I (MUDC 253A or MUDC 453A)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Group IA: Symphonic Band (MUDC 248B or MUDC 448B), Jazz Ensemble II (MUDC 253B or MUDC 453B)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Group II: Symphony Orchestra (MUDC 247 or MUDC 447) (vocal emphasis only), Symphonic Band (MUDC 248B or MUDC 448B) (string and vocal emphasis only), Campus Band (MUDC 248D or MUDC 448D) (secondary area only), Marching Band (MUDC 248E or MUDC 448E) (max 1 cr), Jazz Ensemble II (MUDC 253B or MUDC 453B)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Vocal (MUDC)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Group I: University Singers (MUDC 245 or MUDC 445)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Group IA: Concert Choir (MUDC 242), All Collegiate Choir (MUDC 241 or MUDC 441), Chamber Singers (MUDC 249 or MUDC 449), Varsity Chorus (MUDC 243; max 1 cr), University Chorale (MUDC 246; max 1 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Group II: Concert Choir (MUDC 242) (instrumental emphasis only), Varsity Chorus (MUDC 243 or MUDC 443), University Chorale (MUDC 246 or MUDC 446), Jazz Vocal Ensemble (MUDC 253D or MUDC 453D-vocal section only), Big Red Singers (MUDC 251 or MUDC 451; max 2 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Students registering to fulfill Group I degree ensemble requirements must audition for and participate in a Group I ensemble. If it is not possible to accommodate the student in a Group I ensemble, the student must audition and participate in a Group IA ensemble to fulfill the Group IA requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission to Music Teacher Education Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the Music Teacher Education Program is a prerequisite for a music education major to enroll in any 300- or 400-level music education courses. Admission is competitive and enrollment is limited. Admission requires meeting all of the following criteria:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Completion of at least 42 credit hours with a minimum 2.5 GPA.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Completion of MUED 201 and MUED 244 with a minimum grade of “C” and MUED 297 with a Pass.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Documentation of proficiency in reading, writing, and mathematics through successful completion of a basic skills examination that meets the Nebraska Department of Education competency requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Passing the Applied Music–Upper Divisional Qualifying Jury. </span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Completion of MUSC 266, MUSC 266A, and MUAP 232 (or piano proficiency). </span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">6. Completion of a personal and professional fitness self-disclosure form and formal criminal history background check (fee required). (Undertaken during MUED 201 and MUED 297.)</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">7. Successful completion of a screening interview and digital portfolio review with music education faculty. (Undertaken during MUED 244.)</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Interview and Portfolio Review Process</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Through course work taken during the freshman and sophomore years, each student will compile a digital portfolio to give evidence of his or her potential as a music teacher. This portfolio will include an autobiographical essay, an educational philosophy statement, a professional resume, and sample lesson plans. The music education faculty will review the digital portfolio prior to conducting a screening interview. During the interview students will demonstrate their suitability to a career in music education by responding to questions posed by the faculty. Feedback will be provided to each student detailing the results of the faculty’s assessment.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students will be admitted into the Music Teacher Education Program during the spring semester. If a student fails to meet any of the above criteria, they will meet with the music education faculty to determine a course of remediation if applicable. If a student wishes to contest the decision of the music education faculty, they may appeal to the director of the School of Music. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission to Student Teaching</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Student teaching is required for all students who are candidates for an appropriately endorsed Nebraska Teacher’s Certificate. Students who plan to student teach during the fall semester must apply to the coordinator of Music Field Experiences by the preceding March 1. Students who plan to student teach during the spring semester must apply by the preceding October 1.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">During their student teaching semester, students are to be enrolled exclusively in courses that comprise the student teaching experience (MUED 403B, MUED 497D or MUED 497T, MUED 497Y, and MUED 497Z). Students wishing to enroll in a degree requirement course while student teaching (in order to graduate at the end of the semester) may do so only with the permission of the director of the School of Music. Students cannot enroll in classes that are not required for their degree.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The removal of an incomplete in student recitals (MUSR 90, MUSR 91, or MUSR 490) during student teaching must have prior approval from the director of the School of Music.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The basic requirements for admission to student teaching are:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Matriculation in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts, the Graduate College, or dual matriculation in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts and another college.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Admission to the Music Teacher Education Program.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Senior standing (89 hours or more) with a minimum cumulative 2.5 GPA.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Completion of all 300- and 400-level MUED courses: MUED 343, MUED 344, MUED 345, MUED 356, MUED 374, and MUED 470, with a minimum GPA of 2.5 and no grade below C+ (2.33).</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Completion of all 300- and 400-level practica: MUED 397A, MUED 397B/D, and MUED 497D/T, each with a grade of Pass.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">6. Completion of a criminal history check that will be conducted by an independent party (fee required).</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The basic program for student teaching in music provides for a full-day experience on a semester basis.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Student Teaching Placement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Student teachers are placed in many school districts in Lincoln and surrounding areas. Out of state student teaching is also possible. Students should be aware that they may be assigned to a school outside the Lincoln area for student teaching. While student preferences for location will be considered, not all personal preferences can be met.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Criminal History/Background Check</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All students will be required to have a criminal history/background check completed no earlier than 90 days prior to the first day of their student teaching experience. This will be at the expense of the student. The applications for acceptance into the music teacher education program and into student teaching also require completion of a self-disclosure form.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Removal from Student Teaching </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students participating in practicum or student teaching assignments may be removed from their assigned schools if their conduct suggests a lack of professional commitment and presents a negative influence on the well-being or learning of the students in the schools. If such a problem occurs, the student in question will be removed by the coordinator of Music Field Experiences at the request of the cooperating teacher, building principal, and the university supervisor. In such cases, a written report stating the problem and efforts to correct the situation will be forwarded to the Certification Officer for the College of Education and Human Sciences.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Any student removed from a practicum or student teaching assignment may appeal that decision by submitting a written request to the director of the School of Music within 30 days of the removal. The director will schedule a meeting, request pertinent information from the coordinator of Music Field Experiences, and notify the student several days in advance of the scheduled appeal meeting. Students are advised of their right to seek legal advice and may personally attend the appeals meeting. The decision will be forwarded in writing to the student, to the coordinator of Music Field Experiences, the director of Field Experiences for the College of Education and Human Sciences, and to the dean of the College. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Moral Character and Safety Concerns </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Teaching is a profession that requires its potential candidates to be individuals of integrity. Prospective teachers must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and for their students. Teachers are responsible for the education, safety and well-being for anyone in their charge. Therefore, the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts is interested in training future teachers who show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act responsibly. These individuals must be able to serve as representatives of our College and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">With this in mind, should the College discover behavior, which in its reasonable judgment, establishes on the part of the candidate a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons and others in the educational community, the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts reserves the right to deny entry to or dismiss anyone from any program which leads to certification. More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum, pre-practicum, student teaching, or similar field experience, since the interests and safety of the children and young people present in the classroom, schools, and other venues where these practicum experiences take place are paramount. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Problematic behaviors, which the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts reasonably determines renders the candidate a risk to the educational community or demonstrates a likelihood of illegal activity, may be established by any credible means, including the facts surrounding a record of arrests and/or convictions. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Similarly, behaviors which result in a finding by a court or other governmental body that the individual is: </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a mentally ill and dangerous person; </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">mentally incompetent to stand trial; </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">acquitted of criminal charges because of insanity; </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an incapacitated person; </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a person in need of a guardian or conservator, or; </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a person unable to manage his or her property due to mental illness, mental deficiency, or chronic use of drugs or chronic intoxication are the kind of behaviors which are likely to disqualify a candidate from participation in practicum experiences and other Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts programs. </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Nebraska State Department of Education Policy Pertaining to Students with Felony or Misdemeanor Convictions </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Nebraska Department of Education policy requires that a person with felony convictions or misdemeanor convictions involving abuse, neglect, or sexual misconduct shall not be allowed to participate in pre-student teaching laboratory and classroom experiences or student teach without approval by the Board of Education. To comply with this policy, the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts will require each student to affirm under oath that he or she does not have any convictions in the above named areas prior to each field placement. If a student does have any felony or misdemeanor convictions, he/she is required to meet with Dr. Tom Wandzilak, Certification Officer, Student Services Center, 104 Henzlik Hall, 472-8626, as soon as possible. Students with questions pertaining to convictions should contact Dr. Wandzilak.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Application for a Nebraska Teaching Certificate</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To actively engage in the teaching profession, a candidate must fulfill both the College degree requirements and the professional certification requirements of the State of Nebraska. Undergraduate students apply for the teaching certificate at the same time they apply for the baccalaureate degree in 109 Canfield Administration Building. Post-baccalaureate students completing teacher certification apply to the Chief Adviser for Music Education, Westbrook Music Building. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Graduation Without Certification </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In rare cases, permission may be granted for a student to graduate without a recommendation for certification. This provision is for the student who does not qualify for, or is removed from, student teaching. However, there are times when, because of illness or other extreme situations, a student will decide not to complete all professional requirements. In this situation, the student should contact his or her adviser, then complete a formal request to the coordinator of Music Field Experiences to be allowed to graduate without completing all certification requirements. If permission is granted, the student is expected to complete all professional requirements except student teaching. This includes a passing grade in all methods courses. If a student fails to complete at least one half of the student teaching assignment, the individual will be required to complete a culminating project not to exceed 6 credit hours. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Any student who graduates without a recommendation for certification will not be recommended for teacher certification in any state. In addition, the student will not be eligible for graduation with honors. If, at some future time, the student wishes to complete certification requirements, he or she must first appeal for readmission to the music teacher education program. At least one semester must pass after graduation before the appeal can be made. If the appeal is granted, the student will be treated as a readmitted student and will complete all requirements in effect at the time of reentry, including passing grades in all methods courses.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
