<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Political_Science-11</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="political-science-11">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Political Science</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Political Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Tyler White</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Elizabeth Theiss-Morse,</span><span class="generated-style"> 509 Oldfather Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Graduate Chair:</span><span class="generated-style"> Patrice McMahon, 525 Oldfather Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Undergraduate Chair:</span><span class="generated-style"> John Gruhl, 534 Oldfather Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Undergraduate Adviser:</span><span class="generated-style"> Tyler White, 514 Oldfather Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Combs, Comer, Gruhl, Hibbing, Michaels, Smith, Theiss-Morse</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors: </span><span class="generated-style">Kohen, McMahon, Miller, Rapkin, Wedeman</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Griffin, Hillebrecht, Kang, Mitchell, Wagner, Wals</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Courses in political science examine government and politics in the United States and around the world.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Honors Program.</span><span class="generated-style"> Students interested in the honors program should contact John Gruhl, honors adviser, for further information.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Policy Certificate.</span><span class="generated-style"> An Undergraduate Public Policy Analysis Certificate, through political science, is available to undergraduates in any major and is for students interested in policy issues, policy-related job opportunities, and/or skills for the analysis of public policies and programs. For more information, visit www.unl.edu/polisci/public/public_undergrad.html.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Prelaw Students.</span><span class="generated-style"> Students in Prelaw may find the courses in American government, politics, and law particularly useful. In particular, they are advised to take some of the following courses: POLS 325, POLS 345, POLS 350, POLS 441, POLS 442, POLS 443, and POLS 469. College pre-law advising is located in the Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span><span class="generated-style"> The advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy are offered. For details on these programs see the </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span><span class="generated-style">.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">30 hours including: </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">a) POLS 100 or POLS 100H or POLS 105;</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">b) POLS 108 or POLS 380 or POLS 383 or POLS 384 or POLS 386; </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">c) POLS 400; </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">d) 6 hours each in any three of the five following categories: American government, politics and law; foreign and comparative government; international relations; political theory, methodology, and behavior; public administration and policy.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For courses at the 400 level the prerequisite, unless otherwise stated, is junior standing or above or permission.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Pass/no pass credit is not available in courses for the major except for POLS 395. Pass/no pass credit is allowed for courses in the minor, subject to College regulations. Request forms are available in the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Level Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">At least 9 hours must be at the 400 level.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A.</span><span class="generated-style"> 18 hours including POLS 100 and at least one course at the 400 level.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan B. </span><span class="generated-style">12 hours.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
