<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>PreHealth_PreLaw &amp; Combined Degree Prog</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="prehealth-prelaw-combined-degree-prog">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Health, Pre-Law &amp; Combined Degree Programs</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Pre-Health, Pre-Law and Combined Degree Programs</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Non-degree seeking</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISERS:</span><span class="generated-style"> Erin Sayer, Brooke Glenn, Becky Czaja-Stevens</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Combined Degree Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who want to combine their undergraduate degree courses in the College of Arts and Sciences with a professional program in one of the following: law, medicine, dentistry, or pharmacy, may follow a combined program that, if they are accepted to a professional program after three years (minimum 90 hours), leads to the bachelors degree at the end of four years and the professional degree at the completion of the professional program. With law, the combined course is six years. With medicine, dentistry, or pharmacy, the combined course is seven years.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The first year’s work in law, medicine, dentistry, or pharmacy in any accredited United States or Canadian college of law, medicine, dentistry, or pharmacy is accepted by the College of Arts and Sciences as the equivalent of the fourth year of work for the bachelors degree as the major, if the student has completed three years of college work before entering the professional program. In these three years of college work, minimum 90 hours, the student must also complete 30 hours in residence (see index for guide to rule on residency), fulfill all general education requirements (Achievement-Centered Education [ACE] and College Distribution Requirements), and complete one Plan A or two Plan B minors. For a BS degree, students must complete the 60 hour scientific base which is comprised of science and math courses.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Law students who demonstrate exceptional academic ability in three years of undergraduate study must request permission from the College of Arts and Sciences to participate in the combined degree program. For combined degree programs in medicine, dentistry and pharmacy no application to the College of Arts and Sciences is necessary, however, students are strongly encouraged to work closely with a pre-health adviser to be sure all requirements are met prior to matriculating to the professional program.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission to a professional program in law, medicine, dentistry, or pharmacy is not guaranteed at the time of undergraduate admission to the College of Arts and Sciences. The Combined Degree Program is only an option for students who apply and are accepted to a professional program in law, medicine, dentistry or pharmacy after the third year of undergraduate work.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Health Programs</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Many students interested in pursuing health care careers start their program of studies in the College of Arts and Sciences. Some students declare an academic major while working toward their professional school requirements and earn a degree from UNL before entering professional school. Some professional programs allow students to enter after completing school requirements without earning an undergraduate degree. In either case, students may choose a course of study in any of the following Pre-Health Categories while they are preparing for professional school and/or deciding on a major and degree. Students pursuing these categories while earning degrees from any undergraduate college at UNL can receive guidance and advice from the Pre-Professional Advising Services in the College of Arts and Sciences by declaring their pre-health category with their college advising office. </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Chiropractic</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Chiropractic is a branch of health care that focuses on manipulation as the best mode of care and treatment of many injuries and illnesses. It emphasizes the inter-relatedness of the body parts as a whole set, but especially as they relate to the function of the nervous system. Since the majority of the body’s organs are innervated by nerves which enter or leave the spine, a major emphasis is on the correct structure and function of the spine and the body joints.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Clinical Laboratory Science</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Clinical Lab Science (formally Medical Technology) is the allied health profession concerned with performing laboratory tests that are used in the diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis of disease and in the maintenance of health. The clinical lab scientist performs a full range of laboratory tests, from simple pre-marital blood tests to more complex tests to uncover diseases, such as AIDS, diabetes, and cancer. The clinical lab scientist is also responsible for confirming the accuracy of test results and reporting laboratory findings to the pathologist and other doctors.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Clinical Perfusion Science</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Perfusionists are skilled allied health professionals, qualified by academic and clinical education, who deal with all phases of regulating and controlling blood flow outside the body, called extracorporeal circulation. The perfusionist operates extracorporeal equipment during any medical situation where it is necessary to support, or temporarily replace, the patient’s circulatory or respiratory function. The perfusionist has diverse responsibilities which include the mechanical support of a patient’s circulation and pulmonary function during open heart surgery and is an integral member of the cardiovascular surgery team involved in infant and adult cardiac surgery.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Cytotechnology</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Cytotechnology is an allied health specialty which offers exciting possibilities for those who want a career in science and a significant role in health care. Working with a microscope, cytotechnologists study specimens from all body sites. Using subtle clues in the cells themselves, cytotechnologists can solve the mystery of disease by diagnosing cancer, precancerous lesions, benign tumors, infectious agents, and inflammatory processes. Cytotechnologists help save lives by discovering certain diseases early when treatment is most effective.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Dental Hygiene</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A dental hygienist is a preventive oral health professional licensed in dental hygiene to provide educational, clinical and therapeutic services supporting total health through the promotion of optimal oral health. The dental hygienist is responsible for providing treatment that helps to prevent oral diseases such as dental caries (cavities) and periodontal disease (gum disease) and for educating the patient to maintain optimal oral health.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Dentistry</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Dentistry is devoted to maintaining the health of teeth and gums, as well as other hard and soft tissues of the mouth. Early detection of oral cancer and systemic conditions that manifest themselves through the mouth are necessary for the maintenance of general health. The dentist is, in fact, a person dedicated to the highest standards of health throughout the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of all oral diseases and conditions.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Medicine</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The medical profession (allopathic or osteopathic) offers a wide variety of career options that are exciting, challenging, and rewarding. Although the environment in which medical services are provided has been changing rapidly and will continue to change, the physician’s role as diagnostician, healer, and patient advocate remains central to the provision of health care in our country. Although most physicians provide direct patient care, some medical degree recipients concentrate on basic or applied research, become teachers or administrators, or combine various elements of these activities.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Mortuary Science</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Completion of a professional program in mortuary science leads to licensure as a funeral director/embalmer. Morticians deal with funeral planning, death registration, embalming, and the grief and bereavement issues of families and friends of the deceased.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Nursing</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The nursing profession offers a wide variety of career opportunities for men and women. Career choices range from highly technical positions in research or intensive care to “high touch” specialties such as hospice care or the newborn nursery. Nursing training programs range from associates to bachelors educational levels. Students who earn the BSN are prepared to assume staff nurse level positions in areas such as public health, gerontology, pediatrics, industrial settings, emergency medicine, psychiatric and mental health facilities, and acute care agencies. Students who desire advanced nursing degrees will find graduate programs leading to the masters and doctor of philosophy degrees in a variety of specialty areas.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Occupational Therapy</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Occupational therapy is a health care profession using purposeful activity (occupation) as a means of preventing, reducing, or overcoming physical, social, and emotional challenges in people of all ages. An occupational therapist works with individuals whose participation in daily activities has been impaired by physical injury/illness, developmental/learning disabilities, psychological/emotional problems or the aging process. The occupational therapist carefully evaluates each person to determine physical and/or mental strengths and weaknesses, and, in conjunction with other health professionals, develops a program using purposeful activities and adaptive equipment to encourage the patient’s involvement in meaningful daily living.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Optometry</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Optometry is the primary health profession dedicated to caring for vision. Through academic and clinical training, optometrists acquire the knowledge and skills needed to diagnose, treat, and prevent problems of the visual system. Providing health education, managing curative or preventive regimes, and supplying vision care to special groups of patients are all parts of an optometrist’s work.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Pharmacy</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Pharmacists are responsible for drug therapy and drug distribution and must possess the scientific and technical knowledge necessary to evaluate drug therapy for each individual patient. They must develop skill in personal relations with patients and other health professionals. Above all, they must be able to make good use of acquired knowledge and experience in arriving at sound judgements and policy decisions.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Physical Therapy</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">As an important member of the health care team, physical therapists assess and treat disabilities and promote wellness to individuals of all ages. Their primary objective is to promote optimum human health and function. The physical therapist conducts physical evaluations to determine the patient’s potential for rehabilitation and life style changes indicated, as well as educates the patient and family. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students can declare Pre-Physical Therapy through the College of Arts and Sciences or the College of Education and Human Sciences. The Pre-Physical Therapy category does not vary based on the UNL undergraduate college. Students who see themselves pursuing an undergraduate major in the College of Arts and Sciences should choose that college for their degree program, while students interested in an academic major offered through the College of Education and Human Sciences should declare that college for completing their degree. The Pre-Professional Advising Services staff located in the Arts and Sciences Advising Center will assist students from any college with their pre-physical therapy requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Physician Assistant</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The physician assistant (PA) practices medicine with the supervision of a physician. As a result of extensive medical training, the PA can assume many tasks traditionally performed only by a medical doctor, thereby helping the physician to be more efficient. Each supervising physician utilizes the services of a PA based on his/her own practice needs. Typically the PA obtains the patient’s medical history, performs a comprehensive physical examination, and orders appropriate laboratory and x-ray studies. The PA diagnoses and treats a wide range of common medical problems, and assists the physician in the management of complex chronic illnesses. Many PAs make hospital and nursing home rounds and assist in surgery. A very important part of the PA’s role is to educate the patient and the community about illness, family planning, social services, health hazards, baby and child care, and other aspects of health promotion and disease prevention.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Radiation Science Technology</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Radiation science technology comprises several disciplines that utilize radiation for diagnosis or treatment, including but not limited to radiography, nuclear medicine, diagnostic medical sonography, or radiation therapy technology. Students should explore options in radiation science to see which field best fits their skills and interests. The career options available to students interested in radiation sciences continually expands as technology develops. Examples of two possible fields UNL students pursue include radiography or nuclear medicine technology.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Medical imaging is the specialty of the radiologic technologist (or radiographer). As part of the radiology team, the technologist uses radiation and other modalities to produce images of the tissues, organs, bones and vessels of the human body. The radiographer positions the patient and applies the exact quantity and the precise quality of radiation necessary to produce the image. Physicians trained in radiology interpret the images and diagnose the conditions shown.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The field of nuclear medicine technology uses radioactivity to help find diseases or other conditions in people, to treat some diseases, and to investigate better methods of diagnosis. Disorders in any part of the body may be studied—for example, a blood clot in the lungs or brain, altered rhythm of the heart, or infections in the bone or tissues. The nuclear medicine technologist has many responsibilities: caring for the patient, assuring that equipment is operating properly, preparing radioactive drugs, and performing the actual procedures.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Veterinary Science</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Veterinarians are best known for healing animals, but veterinary medical research has been helpful for humans too. For instance, more and more links are being found between human and animal diseases, such as SARS, mad cow disease, West Nile virus, and avian flu, among others. Thus, a degree in veterinary medicine can prepare students for careers in public health and research. Veterinary science is a degree program in the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources and students wishing to pursue veterinary medicine can complete the requirements for colleges of veterinary medicine while completing their degree in CASNR.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Law</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Law is the system we use to ensure order and justice for individuals and communities within our society. The broad nature of the legal field allows people to work with the law in a number of ways. Litigation (trial practice), representative practice, legal planning, education, and adjudication (becoming a judge) are traditional ways in which people work directly with the law. However, a legal education is useful and may be applied to a variety of other fields such as business, insurance, government, writing, resource management, or publishing.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Many students interested in pursuing legal careers start their program of studies in the College of Arts and Sciences. Some students declare an academic major and earn a degree from UNL before entering professional school using their undergraduate academic program to develop the desired skill set for entry into law school and the legal profession. Students pursuing the Pre-Law category while earning degrees from any undergraduate college at UNL can receive guidance and advice from the Pre-Professional Advising Services in the College of Arts and Sciences by declaring their pre-law category with their college advising office. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">High School Preparation</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students planning to pursue advanced work in any of the Pre-Health programs or Pre-Law program should begin with a strong college preparatory course program in high school. In addition to meeting the University entrance requirements, it is recommended that pre-health or pre-law students finish four years of the same foreign language in high school. Pre-health students are also encouraged to take as many years of mathematics and science as possible while paying close attention to the use of pre-university earned credit options such as Advanced Placement, International Baccalaureate, and Dual Enrollment/Dual Credit options. Some health professional schools will not accept or will limit acceptance and applicability of prerequisite credit earned by examination or prior to high school graduation. Students should consult with a Pre-Professional Adviser or their high school guidance counselor when choosing to earn credit prior to graduating from high school.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Admission to Professional Programs</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The admission requirements for these programs vary and may change from year to year. Admission to the professional programs is competitive. Students need to be aware of not only specific course requirements but also entrance exams, admission deadlines, research and volunteer opportunities, and other activities that enhance the application. In order to receive the most timely information on requirements and preparation, students should visit or contact the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall, 402-472-4190, asadvisingcenter2@unl.edu. Information is also available on the Web site www.ascweb.unl.edu/advisingcenter.html.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
