<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Speech-Language Pathology &amp; Audiology (ASC)</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="speech-language-pathology-audiology-asc-">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Speech-Language Pathology &amp; Audiology (ASC)</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Speech-Language Pathology &amp; Audiology</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Denise Howell</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: John Bernthal,</span><span class="generated-style"> 301 Barkley Memorial Center</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The program in Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology is housed in the Department of Special Education and Communication Disorders in the College of Education and Human Sciences. The program offers both a bachelor of arts degree and a bachelor of science degree through the College of Arts and Sciences and a bachelor of science degree through the College of Education and Human Sciences. Both degrees provide the preprofessional courses required for graduate study in either speech-language pathology or audiology. The entry level for practice as a speech-language pathologist requires a masters degree. A doctorate of audiology (AuD) is required to practice audiology. For information on programs leading to degrees and for a detailed description of courses required, please see the College of Education and Human Sciences section of this bulletin.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Teacher certification in speech-language pathology requires a masters degree with specialization in speech-language pathology, passing scores on the Pre-Professional Skills Test, satisfactory completion of EDPS 250, EDPS 251, or CYAF 160, EDPS 362 and SLPA 488 or TEAC 330 or the graduate-level equivalents. Completion of a masters degree with specialization in speech-language pathology and a passing score on the speech-language pathology Praxis national certification exam is required for state licensure and/or public school certification in speech-language pathology. A doctor of audiology degree (AuD) and a passing score on the audiology Praxis national certification exam is required for state licensure in audiology.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">55 to 56 hours: SLPA 150, SLPA 250, SLPA 251, SLPA 271, SLPA 397A (1 hr); SLPA 421, SLPA 441, SLPA 452, SLPA 455, SLPA 456, SLPA 461, SLPA 461L, SLPA 464, SLPA 472; STAT 218, SPED 400 and SLPA 454; biological sciences anatomy (5 hrs) or human physiology (4 hrs) and a physical science (3 hr min)</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Six or less Pass/No Pass credit hours may be accepted in major area course work.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Need overall minimum major GPA of B/3.0.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
