<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources Main Page</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="agricultural-sciences-natural-resources-main-page">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="college-name"><span class="generated-style">College of Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> College of Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Steven S. Waller, Ph.D., Dean and Professor of Agronomy</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">David K. Hardin, D.V.M., Associate Dean and Professor of Veterinary and Biomedical Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Dann E. Husmann, Ph.D., Associate Dean and Professor of Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">John P. Markwell, Ph.D., Associate Dean and Professor of Biochemistry</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Jack L. Schinstock, Ed.D., Associate Dean and Professor of Biological Systems Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Tiffany M. Heng-Moss, Ph.D., Assistant Dean and Professor of Entomology</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Website: http://casnr.unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style"> Requirements for admission into the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources (CASNR) are consistent with general University admission requirements (one unit equals one high school year): 4 units of English, 4 units of mathematics, 3 units of natural sciences, 3 units of social studies, and 2 units of foreign language. Students must also meet performance requirements (ACT composite of 20 or higher OR combined SAT score of 950 or higher OR rank in the top one-half of graduating class; transfer students must have a 2.0 (on a 4.0 scale) cumulative grade point average and 2.0 on most recent term of attendance.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who are admitted to CASNR with core course deficiencies must remove these deficiencies within the first 30 credit hours at UNL, or within the first calendar year at UNL, whichever takes longer, excluding foreign languages. Students have up to 60 credit hours to remove foreign language deficiencies. College-level course work taken to remove deficiencies may be used to meet degree requirements in CASNR.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Deficiencies in the required entrance subjects can be removed by completion of specified courses in the University or by correspondence.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Office of Admissions, Alexander Building (east entrance), City Campus, provides information to new students on how deficiencies can be removed. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADVISING</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Academic Advising</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Undergraduate Advising:</span><span class="generated-style"> Dann E. Husmann</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Advising activities are coordinated by the Associate Dean for Student Affairs in the CASNR Dean’s Office. Each student in the College is assigned a faculty or professional adviser to assist in career planning, implementing, and completing academic programs. Assignments are made so that students will be working with an adviser who shares their academic interest. Students are encouraged to visit with their faculty or professional adviser about their career interests and development opportunities. Students may change their college, degree, and/or adviser. Such changes must be initiated in 103 Agricultural Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Responsibility</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are ultimately responsible for fulfilling all the requirements of the curriculum in which they are enrolled. Students are also responsible for initiating advising contacts and preparing for advising sessions. The mentoring relationship between academic advisers and students is confidential and is strengthened by advisers’ listening with empathy. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are expected to take responsibility for successful university experiences and effective advising sessions by:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">1. Participating in New Student Enrollment and priority registration programs;</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">2. Scheduling appointments with advisers well in advance of priority registration and at other times as needed;</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">3. Identifying class choices from requirements of the selected program;</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">4. Identifying questions to address in advising sessions;</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">5. Informing advisers of any special needs, deficiencies or barriers that might affect academic success;</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">6. Following academic policies and procedures and meeting academic calendar deadlines (e.g. registration, fee payment, degree audit, filing for degree, etc.);</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">7. Knowing and completing degree or program requirements;</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">8. Monitoring their progress toward meeting degree requirements by maintaining a copy of their academic records and seeking assistance to resolve any errors or questions; </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">9. Acting on recommendations to seek assistance from the various student support services provided by the University; and</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">10. Achieving requirements for BS candidacy prior to senior year.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Academic Load</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">CASNR students may register for up to 18 credit hours per semester. Written permission must be obtained from the CASNR Dean to exceed the credit hour maximum and must be filed with an Override Authorization form at the time of registration. Students must be enrolled for 12 UNL credit hours to be considered full-time students. For recognition on the Dean’s List, these 12 UNL credit hours must be for a letter grade.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Exclusions &amp; Restrictions</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Not more than 12 hours of independent study.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Not more than 24 hours of Pass/No Pass grade option.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Not more than 60 hours from two-year colleges.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Not more than 90 hours from other four-year institutions.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Not more than 6 hours of non-UNL courses can be counted among the last 36 hours earned.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">No credit toward the BS degree is allowed for MATH 100A.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">No more than 10 semester hours of below C grades are transferable from colleges outside the NU system. Grades below C can only be applied to free electives.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Credit by Examination</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Through study or experience that parallels a University of Nebraska–Lincoln course, a regularly enrolled University student may feel prepared to pass an examination on the course content of a specific course for credit in that course. To apply for credit, a student should:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">1. Consult with the department head or designee.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">2. Obtain a Credit by Examination Form at the Records Office, 107 Canfield Administration Building, 402-472-3649. Current enrollment in the University must also be verified.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">3. Secure the approval signature from the department head, instructor, and the dean of the college. The Dean’s signature can be obtained in the 103 Agricultural Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">4. Secure the bursar’s receipt for payment of the appropriate fee per course for credit by examination. Currently, the fee is one-half the resident tuition rate.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">5. Present the completed form to the instructor designated by the department head. The instructor will give the examination and report the results on the Credit by Examination Form to the Admissions Office, Alexander Building, 402-472-0130.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Examination for credit through UNL departments may be taken only by currently enrolled students. A student is not permitted to receive credit by examination in a course which is a prerequisite for a course already taken unless the course and its prerequisites cover essentially different subject matter.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College also gives credit for the subject and general examinations of the College Level Examination Program (CLEP) and the Advanced Placement (AP) Program administered by the College Entrance Examination Board. See the CASNR Associate Dean, 103 Agricultural Hall, for current policy regarding CLEP and AP examinations.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Dual Degrees</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Dual Degrees from the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in CASNR may earn a bachelor of science degree in more than one program. They must complete all requirements for both programs.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Dual Degrees from CASNR and Other UNL Colleges</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in other colleges may earn a bachelor of science from CASNR and a degree from another UNL college. Students will need to consult with both colleges to ensure all requirements are satisfied.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Grading Appeals</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student who feels that he/she has been unfairly graded must ordinarily take the following sequential steps in a timely manner, usually by initiating the appeal in the semester following the awarding of the grade:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">1. Talk with the instructor concerned. Most problems are resolved at this point.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">2. Talk to the instructor’s department head.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">3. Take the case to the Grading Appeal Committee of the department concerned. The Committee should be contacted through the department head.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">4. Take the case to the CASNR Curriculum Committee by contacting the Dean’s Office, 103 Agricultural Hall. Notification to the Curriculum Committee must be in writing and will include in the notice a statement of the grounds of appeal. Both the student and the instructor will be given an opportunity to present materials to the committee in the presence of each other.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Honors Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources encourages qualified students to participate in the University Honors Program which is a UNL-wide program. The College’s honors students pursue degree programs offered by the College while completing the required honors courses. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All University Honors Program students are expected to complete a mentored thesis project with a faculty member of their choosing. Students should enroll in AGRI 299H in the spring semester of their sophomore year. As a part of AGRI 299H, students will identify a faculty thesis mentor and write a thesis proposal with their faculty thesis mentor. Because of the breadth of degrees, the program relies on faculty mentors within individual degree programs to determine the criteria for an undergraduate thesis in their area of endeavor. General guidance for mentors is provided as requested by Dr. Madhavan Soundararajan.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Agricultural Research Division supports a competitive grants program to assist the College’s Honors Program students in the pursuit of their mentored theses. Students may also seek support from UNL’s Undergraduate Creative Activities and Research Experience (UCARE) program.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">For more information about the University Honors Program, contact:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Dr. Madhavan Soundararajan</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">University of Nebraska–Lincoln</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">N251 Beadle</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PO Box 88664</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Lincoln, NE 68588-0664</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Recognition</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Dean’s List</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each semester, students having 12 UNL semester-graded hours with a minimum grade point average of 3.75 or above are eligible for the Dean’s List.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Degrees with Distinction</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In recognition of outstanding academic excellence, CASNR recommends the bachelors degree With Distinction, With High Distinction, and With Highest Distinction. Recommendations are made by the CASNR Committee on Scholarship. To be eligible for consideration by the Committee, undergraduate students must complete 45 credit hours for a letter grade (excluding Pass/No Pass marks) at UNL prior to the semester in which they graduate and must have completed 60 such credit hours at UNL at the time they graduate. To determine which of the eligible candidates will be recommended for the honor, the Committee currently uses the cumulative grade point average as follows:</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">With Distinction 3.800-3.899 </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">With High Distinction 3.900-3.949</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">With Highest Distinction 3.950-4.000</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> An undergraduate thesis is required to graduate With Highest Distinction regardless of a student’s grade point average.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">International Study/Education Abroad</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College offers a variety of opportunities for students to enhance their international awareness. All students are required to demonstrate that they have a minimal international awareness, either through course work or experience. A minor in International Agriculture and Natural Resources can be designed for students who seek a broad understanding of the nature and role of agriculture and natural resources in the integrated world economy and the implications of world events for agriculture and natural resources. International study tours of one to three weeks in duration are also sponsored by CASNR to assist students in discovering different ways of thinking and acting as well as making them more informed global citizens. CASNR also promotes the Education Abroad program offered through the UNL Education Abroad Office which has opportunities of various lengths in numerous countries on all continents.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For financial assistance, the College offers the Robert and Beatrice Kleis Fund. One or more grants are awarded annually to undergraduate students in agriculture-related degree programs at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. These grants shall be used to subsidize expenses associated with an international study program for credit. For more information on international opportunities, contact Dr. Ousmane Youm, 103 Agricultural Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Standing/Classification</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Sophomore Standing.</span><span class="generated-style"> For admission to sophomore standing, a student must have completed all of the College entrance requirements except foreign language, earned a minimum of 27 semester hours of credit, and attained a total grade point average of at least 2.0.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Junior Standing.</span><span class="generated-style"> A student has junior standing after meeting the requirements for sophomore standing and completing 53 semester hours of credit.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Senior Standing.</span><span class="generated-style"> A student has senior standing after meeting the requirements for junior standing and completing 89 semester hours of credit.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Substitutions and Waivers</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Requests for substitutions and waivers involving courses that fall within the basic four-year curriculum must be filed before the start of the fall semester for December graduates, before the start of the spring semester for May graduates and prior to the last day of classes of the spring semester for August graduates. Forms are available in 103 Agricultural Hall, from the student adviser, or on the website. </span><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> If a course and/or a requirement within the degree program is waived, the credit hours in the degree program are still required.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">ACE REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All students must fulfill the Achievement Centered Education (ACE) requirements. Information about the ACE program may be viewed at ace.unl.edu.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The minimum requirements of CASNR reflect the common core of courses that apply to students pursuing degrees in the college. Students should work with an adviser to satisfy ACE outcomes 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and 10 with the college requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">BULLETIN TO USE</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must fulfill the requirements stated in the bulletin for the academic year in which they are first admitted to UNL or when they were first admitted to a Joint Academic Transfer Program. In consultation with advisers, a student may choose to follow a subsequent bulletin for any academic year in which they are admitted to and enrolled as a degree-seeking student at UNL in the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources. Students must complete all degree requirements from a single bulletin year. The bulletin which a student follows for degree requirements may not be more than 10 years old at the time of graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Curriculum Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The curriculum requirements of the College consist of three areas: ACE (Achievement-Centered Education); College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources Core; and Degree Program requirements and electives. All three areas of the College Curriculum Requirements are incorporated within the description of the Major/Degree Program sections of the bulletin. The individual major/degree program listings of classes insures that a student will meet the curriculum requirements of the College.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Foreign Languages/Language Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Two units of a foreign language are required. This requirement is usually met with two years of high school language.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Hours Required for Graduation</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College grants the bachelor of science degree in programs associated with agricultural sciences and natural resources. Students working toward a degree must earn at least 120 semester hours of credit. A minimum cumulative grade point average of C (2.0 on a 4.0 scale) must be maintained throughout the course of studies and is required for graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Removal of C-, D and F Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Only the most recent letter grade received in a given course will be used in computing a student’s cumulative grade point average if the student has completed the course more than once and previously received a grade or grades below C in that course.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The previous grade (or grades) will not be used in computation of the cumulative grade point average, but it will remain a part of the academic record and will appear on any transcript.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student can remove from his/her cumulative average a course grade of C-, D+, D, D- or F if the student repeats the same course at the University of Nebraska and receives a grade other than P (pass), I (incomplete), N (no pass), W (withdrew), or NR (no report). If a course is no longer being offered, it is not eligible for the revised grade point average computation process.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For complete procedures and regulations, see the </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Schedule of Classes</span><span class="generated-style">.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in CASNR may take any course offered on a Pass/No Pass basis within the 24-hour limitation established by the Faculty Senate. However, a department may specify that the Pass/No Pass status of its courses be limited to non-majors, or may choose to offer some courses for letter grades only.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A minimum cumulative grade point average of C (2.0 on a 4.0 scale) must be maintained throughout the course of studies and is required for graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Credit Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To be considered for admission, a transfer student, Nebraska resident or nonresident, must have an accumulated average of C (2.0 on a 4.0 scale) and a minimum C average in the last semester of attendance at another college. Transfer students who have completed less than 12 credit hours of college study must submit either ACT or SAT scores.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Ordinarily, credits earned at an accredited college are accepted by the University. The College, however, will evaluate all hours submitted on an application for transfer and reserves the right to accept or reject any of them. Sixty is the maximum number of hours UNL will accept on transfer from a two-year college. Ninety is the maximum number of hours UNL will accept from a four-year college. Transfer credit in the degree program must be approved by the degree program adviser on a Request for Substitution Form to meet specific course requirements, group requirements, or course level requirements in the major. At least 9 hours in the major field, including the capstone course, must be completed at UNL regardless of the number of hours transferred.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College will accept no more than 10 semester hours of C-, D+, D and D- grades from other schools. The C-, D+, D and D- grades can only be applied to free electives. This policy does not apply to the transfer of grades from UNO or UNK to UNL. All D grades may be transferred from UNO or UNK, but they are not applicable to a major or minor.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Joint Academic Transfer Programs</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources has agreements with many institutions to support joint academic programs. The transfer programs include dual degree programs and cooperative degree programs. Dual degree programs offer students the opportunity to receive a degree from a participating institution and also to complete requirements for a bachelor of science degree in CASNR. Cooperative programs result in a single degree from either UNL or the cooperating institution.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Dual Degree Programs</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">A to B Programs</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The A to B Program, a joint academic program offered by the CASNR and participating community colleges, allows students to complete the first two years of a degree program at the participating community college and continue their education and study in a degree program leading toward a bachelor of science degree.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The A to B Program provides a basic knowledge plus specialized course work. Students transfer into CASNR with junior standing.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Depending on the community college, students enrolled in the A to B Program may complete the requirements for an associate of science or associate of applied science degree at the community college, transfer to UNL, and work toward a bachelor of science degree.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Participating community colleges include:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Central Community College </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Metropolitan Community College</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Mid-Plains Community College</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Northeast Community College</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Southeast Community College</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">3+2 Programs</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Two specialized degree programs in </span><span class="basic-text-bold">animal science</span><span class="generated-style"> and </span><span class="basic-text-bold">veterinary science</span><span class="generated-style"> are offered jointly with an accredited college or school of veterinary medicine. These two programs permit CASNR animal science or veterinary science students to receive a bachelor of science degree from UNL with a degree in animal science or veterinary science after successfully completing two years of the professional curriculum in veterinary medicine at an accredited veterinary school. Students who successfully complete the 3+2 Program, must complete the “Application for Degree” form and provide transcripts to the Credentials Clerk, Office of the University Registrar, 107 Canfield Administration Building, UNL. Students should discuss these degree programs with their academic adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Cooperative Degree Programs</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Academic credit from UNL and a cooperating institution is applied towards a four-year degree from either UNL (UNL degree-granting program) or the cooperating institution (non UNL degree-granting program). All have approved programs of study.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">UNL Degree-Granting Programs</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A UNL degree-granting program is designed to provide students the opportunity to complete a two-year program of study at one of the four-year institutions listed below, transfer to CASNR and complete the requirements for a bachelor of science degree.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Chadron State College.</span><span class="generated-style"> Chadron State College offers a 2+2 program leading to a grassland ecology and management degree program.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">University of Nebraska at Kearney.</span><span class="generated-style"> Transfer programs are available for students pursuing degree programs leading to a bachelor of science degree.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">University of Nebraska at Omaha.</span><span class="generated-style"> The University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO) cooperates with CASNR in providing four-semester pre-agricultural sciences, pre-natural resources, pre-food science and technology, and pre-horticulture transfer programs.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student enrolled in these programs may transfer all satisfactorily completed academic credits identified in the suggested program of study, and enter CASNR to study toward a degree program leading to a bachelor of science degree. The total program would require a minimum of four years or eight semesters (16 credit hours/semester or 120 credit hours).</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">UNL CASNR faculty teach horticulture and food science and technology courses at UNO to assist an urban population in better understanding the food processing, horticulture, and landscape horticulture industries.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For more information, contact Associate Professor Steven Rodie, Pre-Horticulture Program, University of Nebraska at Omaha, 402-554-3752; and/or Billie Lefholtz, Dean’s Office, CASNR, University of Nebraska–Lincoln, 800-472-8800, ext. 2541.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Non UNL Degree-Granting Programs</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The CASNR cooperates with other institutions to provide course work that is applied towards a degree at the cooperating institution. Pre-professional programs offered by CASNR allow students to complete the first two or three years of a degree program at UNL prior to transferring and completing a degree at the cooperating institution.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Chadron State College–Range Science.</span><span class="generated-style"> The 3+1 Program in range science allows Chadron State College students to pursue a range science degree through Chadron State College. Students complete three years of course work at Chadron State College and one year of specialized range science course work (32 credit hours) at CASNR.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Dordt College (Iowa) – Agricultural Education: Teaching Option.</span><span class="generated-style"> This program allows students to pursue an Agricultural Education Teaching Option degree leading toward a bachelor of science in agricultural education. Students at Dordt College will complete 90 credit hours in the Agricultural Education: Teaching Option Transfer Program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Residency</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must complete at least 30 of the total hours for their degree using UNL credits. Credit earned during education abroad may be used toward the residency requirement if students register through UNL and participate in prior-approved education abroad programs. UNL open enrollment and summer independent study courses count toward residence.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Online and Distance Education</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">There are many opportunities to earn college credit through the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Office of Online and Distance Education. Some of these credits may be applicable not only as elective credits, but also toward the fulfillment of the College’s education requirements. Credits earned through the UNL Online and Distance Education program may count toward residency. However, certain offerings may not be counted toward scholarship requirements or academic recognition criteria.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">For further information, contact:</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Office of Online and Distance Education</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">University of Nebraska–Lincoln</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">2100 Vine Street</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Lincoln, NE 68588-8307</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">402-472-2175</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">http://online.unl.edu/</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Independent Study Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students wishing to take part in independent studies must obtain permission; complete and sign a contract form; and furnish copies of the contract to the instructor, adviser, departmental office, and the Dean’s Office. The contract should be completed before registration. Forms are available in 103 Agricultural Hall or online at the CASNR website.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Independent study projects include research, literature review or extension of course work under supervision and evaluation of a departmental faculty member.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students may only count 12 hours of independent study toward their degrees and no more than 6 hours can be counted during their last 36 hours earned, excluding senior thesis, internships, and courses taught under an independent study number.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Other College Degree Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Capstone Course Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A capstone course is required for each CASNR degree program. A capstone course is defined as a course in which students are required to integrate diverse bodies of knowledge to solve a problem or formulate a policy of societal importance.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DEGREES &amp; MAJORS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Degree Programs</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Agribusiness </span><span class="list-ital">(Offered jointly with College of Business Administration)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Agricultural Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Agricultural Education</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Agricultural Journalism</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Agronomy</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Animal Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Applied Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Biochemistry </span><span class="list-ital">(Offered jointly with the College of Arts and Sciences)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Environmental Restoration Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Environmental Studies </span><span class="list-ital">(Offered jointly with the College of Arts and Sciences)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Fisheries and Wildlife</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Food Science and Technology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Food Technology for Companion Animals</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Forensic Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Grassland Ecology and Management</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Grazing Livestock Systems</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Horticulture</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Hospitality, Restaurant &amp; Tourism Management </span><span class="list-ital">(Offered jointly with the College of Education and Human Sciences)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Insect Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Mechanized Systems Management</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Microbiology </span><span class="list-ital">(Offered jointly with the College of Arts and Sciences)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Natural Resource and Environmental Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Plant Biology</span><span class="list-ital"> (Offered jointly with the College of Arts and Sciences)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">PGA Golf Management</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Turfgrass and Landscape Management</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Veterinary Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Veterinary Technology </span><span class="list-ital">(Offered jointly with the Nebraska College of Technical Agriculture)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Water Science</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Multiple Degrees</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students may complete requirements for more than one degree by declaring, prior to the last 30 hours of study, a dual degree. This is made possible through a common core required for all CASNR students. Students may consider these options with their faculty advisers.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">An adviser is assigned for each additional degree declared. Appropriate forms must be processed in 103 Agricultural Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Professional Programs</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Integrated Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Forestry</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Law</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Veterinary Medicine</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Related Degree Programs</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Agricultural Engineering</span><span class="list-ital"> (Offered jointly with the College of Engineering)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Biological Systems Engineering </span><span class="list-ital">(Offered jointly with the College of Engineering)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Landscape Architecture </span><span class="list-ital">(Offered jointly with the College of Architecture)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Statistics</span><span class="list-ital"> (Offered jointly with the College of Arts and Sciences)</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional Programs</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Doctor of Plant Health</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Veterinary Medicine</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Certificate Programs</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Contact John Markwell in the CASNR Deans’ Office</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">GRADUATE STUDENT INFORMATION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Graduate work leading to the masters degree is offered in the departments of Agricultural Economics; Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication; Agronomy and Horticulture; Animal Science; Biochemistry; Biological Systems Engineering; Entomology; Food Science and Technology; Plant Pathology; Statistics; School of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences; School of Natural Resources; the Center for Biological Chemistry; and in the interdepartmental area of nutrition. A master of applied science degree is also available.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Graduate work leading to the doctor of philosophy degree is offered by the departments of Agricultural Economics; Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication (offered jointly with the College of Education and Human Sciences); School of Natural Resources (agricultural meteorology and forestry, fisheries and wildlife); Agronomy and Horticulture; Animal Science; Biological Systems Engineering/Agricultural Engineering; Entomology; Food Science and Technology; Plant Pathology (offered jointly with the School of Biological Sciences); Statistics; Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences; the Center for Biological Chemistry (offered jointly with the College of Arts and Sciences); and in the interdepartmental area of Nutrition.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Further information appears in the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MINORS &amp; AREAS OF SPECIALIZATIONS OFFERED </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Minors in the College will consist of 18 hours in the minor area of study, including at least six hours at the 300 and/or 400 level. Alternatively, 12 hours of 300- and/or 400-level courses will meet the requirement. At the discretion of the department(s) responsible for the minor, up to three hours of independent study may be counted toward the minor. Departments may specify additional requirements for their minor(s).</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Minors offered through CASNR: </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Agribusiness </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Agricultural Economics </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Agronomy </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Animal Science </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Biochemistry </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Community Economics and Social Dynamics </span><span class="list-ital">(Agricultural Economics)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Computational Biology and Bioinformatics </span><span class="list-ital">(Offered jointly with the College of Engineering and the College of Arts and Sciences)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Energy Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Engler Agribusiness Entrepreneurship</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Environmental Communications</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Environmental Education</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Environmental Restoration Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Environmental Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Food Science and Technology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Fisheries and Wildlife</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Grassland Ecology and Management</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Grazing Livestock Systems</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Horticulture </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Insect Science </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Integrated Pest Management </span><span class="list-ital">(Plant Pathology)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">International Agriculture and Natural Resources </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Leadership and Communication </span><span class="list-ital">(Agricultural Leadership, Education, and Communication)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Mechanized Systems Management</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Natural Resource and Environmental Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Plant Biology</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Statistics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Turfgrass and Landscape Management</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Veterinary Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Water Science </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Filing for a Minor</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students wishing to declare a minor, must file a new C-D-M-A (College-Degree-Major-Adviser) form with the Dean’s Office prior to filing for graduation if the minor is exactly the same as that published in the student’s Undergraduate Bulletin. If there are any variations from the published minor, then the student must file the “Application for a Minor” form with the Dean’s Office.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Minors in Other Colleges</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student with a degree leading to a bachelor of science degree who wants to obtain a minor in a department in the College of Arts and Sciences should use the following procedure in making his/her request:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">1. In consultation with the adviser, prepare the list of courses required for either Plan A or Plan B in the chosen minor as indicated in the College of Arts and Sciences section of this bulletin. Plan A indicates a single minor; Plan B indicates two minors with fewer hours in each subject than the number required for a single minor.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">2. Submit the C-D-M-A form for the minor to the CASNR Dean’s Office prior to the deadline for submitting the application for graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who have questions related to the minor after it is declared should consult an adviser in the college through which it is offered. The minor will be recorded on the student’s transcript.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Energy Science Minor</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator:</span><span class="generated-style"> Assistant Professor Adam Liska, 246 Chase Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Conley, Hudgins, Schinstock, Yoder</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website:</span><span class="generated-style"> http://energysciences.unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The energy science minor is designed to offer an educational component to University of Nebraska students that will prepare them with the knowledge, expertise, and background to successfully compete for positions with companies that are producing or developing renewable energy sources. The minor is for students who desire a broad understanding of energy related issues and an in-depth knowledge of energy in one or more of four elective thematic areas as well as for those seeking employment in agriculture, business/industry, communication, transportation, and government plus domestic use.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Minor Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A minor in energy science (ENSC) will include a minimum of 18 credit hours of energy-related courses including three core courses (ENSC 110 Energy in Perspective, ENSC 220 Introduction to Energy Systems, and ENSC 230 Energy and the Environment: Economics and Policy). The remaining energy-related courses must come from one or more of the four elective thematic tracks (Energy and Natural Resources; Plant and Animal Bioenergy; Energy Engineering; and Energy Economics, Policy, and Human Dimensions) or be approved by the student’s academic adviser and the minor coordinator. Additionally, a 1-credit-hour Energy Seminar (ENSC 300) will be required, and an optional 1-credit-hour Nebraska Energy Study Tour (ENSC 311) and an optional 1-credit-hour Independent Energy Study (ENSC 496) will be offered. Completing each of the 1-credit-hour courses will allow a student to use those 3 credit hours in place of a course from one of the four thematic areas. At least 6 credit hours must be at the 300 or 400 level and up to 3 hours of energy-related independent study course work may be included.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Courses of Instruction (ENSC)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Courses suitable for automatic inclusion in one of the four elective thematic areas have been identified and the list can be obtained from the minor coordinator or any of the minor advisers listed above. Other courses may be included with prior approval of the minor coordinator.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student in consultation with the academic adviser and a minor adviser (chosen from those above) prepares a list of courses on the CASNR Application for Minor form, obtains the appropriate signatures and submits the minor form to the minor coordinator prior to deadline for submitting the application for graduation. Upon approval, the minor program will be forwarded to the University Registrar, with a copy supplied to the student’s major college. The minor will be recorded on the student’s transcript upon graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Engler Agribusiness Entrepreneurship Minor</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator:</span><span class="generated-style"> Dr. Thomas Field, 212 Miller Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website:</span><span class="generated-style"> http://casnr.unl.edu/engler</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Engler Agribusiness Entrepreneurship Minor offers the knowledge and expertise students will need to create a successful agribusiness venture. It provides skills to evaluate the feasibility of a business idea, identify effective marketing strategies, understand business structure and financing and develop a sound business plan. It provides internship, travel abroad and networking experiences. The minor is for students who want to create and own their own businesses or expand existing businesses by creating new value-added enterprises.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Two minor plans are available:</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">12-Credit-Hour Plan:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Overall 12 credits in approved courses at or above the 300 level including these two required courses:</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">EAEP 488/HORT 488 Business Management for Agricultural Enterprises</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">AGRI 495A Internship in Entrepreneurship</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">In addition, 6 credits from the following electives:</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">AGRI 310 Study Tours in International Agriculture</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">EAEP 321/ENTR 321/MGMT 321 Marketing Entrepreneurship</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">ENTR 322 Family Business Management</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">ENTR 421 Entrepreneurship &amp; Venture Management</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">ENTR 422 Small Business Management or ENTR 422A Small Business Owner (but not both)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 423 Small Business Growth &amp; Development</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">AECN 471 Agricultural Marketing &amp; Product Development I</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">AECN 472 Agricultural Marketing &amp; Product Development II</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">University Honors Seminar 395H Entrepreneurship Theory &amp; Practice</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">18-Credit-Hour Plan:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Overall 18 credits in approved courses including the following required courses:</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">EAEP 101 Introductory Seminar on Opportunities in Entrepreneurship</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">EAEP 288/HORT 288 Agribusiness Entrepreneurship or EAEP 121/ENTR 121 Intro to Entrepreneurship Management (but not both)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">EAEP 275/AECN 275 Agribusiness Entrepreneurial Finance</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">EAEP 488/HORT 488 Business Management for Agricultural Enterprises</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">AGRI 495A Internship in Entrepreneurship</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">In addition, 5 or 6 credits (to reach 18 total credits) from the following electives:</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">AECN 225/MRKT 225 Agribusiness Entrepreneurship in Food Products Marketing</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">ENTR 291 Special Topics in Entrepreneurship for Non-Business Majors</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">AGRI 310 Study Tours in International Agriculture</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">EAEP 321/ENTR 321/MGMT 321 Marketing Entrepreneurship</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">ENTR 322 Family Business Management</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">ENTR 421 Entrepreneurship &amp; Venture Management</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">ENTR 422 Small Business Management or ENTR 422A Small Business Owner (but not both)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 423 Small Business Growth &amp; Development</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">AECN 471 Agricultural Marketing &amp; Product Development I</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">AECN 472 Agricultural Marketing &amp; Product Development II</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">University Honors Seminar 189H Comparative International Entrepreneurship </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">University Honors Seminar 395H Entrepreneurship Theory &amp; Practice</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">International Agriculture and Natural Resources Minor</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator:</span><span class="generated-style"> Professor Ousmane Youm, 103 Agricultural Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Brink, Husmann, Francis, Mason, Powell, Schinstock, Peterson, Weller, Fulginiti</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yiannaka</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Thomas</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Hardin</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Undergraduate Adviser:</span><span class="generated-style"> Swartz</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The International Agriculture and Natural Resources minor is designed for students who seek a broad understanding of the nature and role of agriculture and natural resources in the integrated world economy and of the implications of world events for agriculture and natural resources in both the United States and abroad. The minor adds a global perspective to professional preparation. It is for students who desire a broad understanding of international trade and development issues as well as for those seeking employment in business firms or government agencies with international operations or interests.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students typically build their minor program from courses organized around three areas: 1) a group of international courses in CASNR; 2) complimentary international courses offered in arts and sciences, and business administration; and 3) optional but highly recommended modern language instruction or experience as a base for building international communications skills. Two minor plans are available. One plan requires 12 credits in courses at or above the 300 level while the other plan requires 18 credits, including a minimum of 6 credits in courses at or above the 300 level.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">12-Credit-Hour Plan</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Overall 12 credits in approved courses* at or above the 300 level</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Minimum 3 credits in CASNR courses other than Independent Study, AGRI 310 or NRES 315</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maximum 6 credits from any one department or program</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maximum 6 credits of modern languages at or above the 200 level</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maximum 3 credits of Independent Study and AGRI 310 or NRES 315 combined</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">18-Credit-Hour Plan</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Overall 18 credits in approved courses*</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Minimum 6 credits in CASNR courses</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Minimum 6 credits in courses at or above the 300 level</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maximum 9 credits from any one department or program</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maximum 6 credits of modern languages at or above the 200 level</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maximum 3 credits of Independent Study</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maximum 3 credits of AGRI 310 or NRES 315 </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student in consultation with the academic adviser and a minor adviser (chosen from those above) prepares a list of courses on the CASNR Application for Minor form, obtains the appropriate signatures and submits the minor form to the minor coordinator prior to deadline for submitting the application for graduation. While students may apply during their senior year, planning for the minor and application are recommended earlier in order to get maximum benefit from the minor.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Upon approval, the minor program will be forwarded to the University Registrar, with a copy supplied to the student’s college. The minor will be recorded on the student’s transcript upon graduation. Students interested in pursuing an International Agriculture and Natural Resources minor should contact the minor coordinator or the CASNR Dean’s Office, 103 Agricultural Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Resources Program</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Advising Coordinator:</span><span class="generated-style"> Sara Winn, 102A Hardin Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website:</span><span class="generated-style"> snr.unl.edu/undergrad/programs/index-programs.asp</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Natural Resources programs in CASNR emphasize an interdisciplinary approach to undergraduate and graduate education while providing students with a strong grounding in the program of their choice. The School of Natural Resources (SNR) is the administrative home to the natural resources programs: Environmental Restoration Science, Environmental Studies (Applied Climate Science emphasis and Natural Resources emphasis), Fisheries and Wildlife, Grassland Ecology and Management, Pre-Forestry, and Water Science. The SNR is comprised of faculty from units within the Institute of Agriculture and Natural Resources (IANR), the College of Arts and Sciences, and other University colleges who focus on many critical natural resources and environmental issues.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Specific requirements for each program are listed under each program description. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Courses of instruction in the natural resources programs provide students with the tools to describe the characteristics of natural resource systems which include the atmosphere, hydrosphere, geosphere, and biosphere. In addition, graduates of these programs are expected to be able to understand the interactions among natural resource systems and to evaluate the impacts of humans as stewards and managers of these systems. Along with this technical expertise, each student will develop problem solving and communications skills which will enable them to take their place as a professional in a diversity of natural resources careers.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Scholarships</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The School of Natural Resources annually awards scholarships to freshmen and upperclassmen worth more than $25,000. Scholarship awards are made possible through generous gifts of alumni, local and state organizations, and private donors. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Most SNR scholarships are based on academic performance and do not require an application. A number of scholarships are available. For more information on these scholarships contact Dr. Dave Wedin, Scholarship Committee Chair, or visit http://snr.unl.edu/undergrad/funding/scholarships.asp. </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Academic Advising</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are assigned a faculty adviser after admission into their programs. The adviser serves as a resource regarding the degree, academic plans and progress, and career options. Students are encouraged to regularly consult with their adviser, especially before registering for classes. The natural resources advising coordinator assists the faculty advisers with student consultations, is a resource for internship and employment opportunities, and will assist students in reviewing their academic records and course options.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Professional Programs</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Integrated Science Program</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator:</span><span class="generated-style"> Associate Dean Dann Husmann, 103 Agricultural Hall</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Many students are unsure of which degree program to choose when entering the university. In fact, over half of all students entering UNL change their degree program at least once. The following program is available for students not yet ready to make the decision.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Integrated Science</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The courses listed below compose a non-degree program entitled Integrated Science. The program is designed for students who are interested in a bachelor of science degree in the applied life sciences, agricultural sciences, natural resource sciences, or social sciences offered in the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, but are uncertain about a specific degree program. Such students will receive individualized advising and mentoring from a faculty member and be encouraged to participate in clubs and other pre-professional activities to help them decide which career path is right for them.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This list of suggested courses for the first semester should provide the student maximum flexibility while ensuring that courses contribute to any of the degree programs within the College as well as most programs in other colleges. During the first semester, students should contact Associate Dean Dann Husmann to identify an appropriate adviser(s) in a degree program(s) of their area of interest to plan appropriate courses for subsequent semesters. Students may be in the program for two years (62 credit hours). Students may declare a degree program at any time, but must declare a degree program at the completion of 62 hours.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Semester 1 Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 150 or ENGL 151 or JOUR 200 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NRES 103/AGRI 103 Intro to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 101, MATH 102, MATH 104 or MATH 106 2-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Comprehensive elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Options:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">If interested in Natural Resources and Environmental Science: </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">NRES 101 Natural Resources Orientation (1 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">If interested in Economics: </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">AECN 141 for humanities or social science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">If interested in physical sciences: </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 141, PHYS 211/ PHYS 221 or MSYM 109 for BIOS 101/ BIOS 101L</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">If math placement exam MATH 106: </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Substitute STAT 218 (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To learn about a particular degree program substitute humanities or social science with an entry-level course in one of the College disciplines.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Forestry</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator: Professor James R. Brandle,</span><span class="generated-style"> School of Natural Resources, 407 Hardin Hall</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Forestry deals with the development and use of forests and related lands for a variety of uses– wood, water, wildlife, forage, recreation, and aesthetics. Multiple use is the foundation upon which management of our national forests is based; foresters today, through their forest management programs, are expected to provide a broad array of benefits to meet public demands. Students graduating from forestry programs find employment with federal, state, and local governments, and with private industry.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">CASNR offers a two-year pre-forestry program, but does not offer a four-year forestry degree. Students must transfer at the end of their freshman or sophomore year. Graduate training in forestry is offered by the School of Natural Resources.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The pre-forestry curriculum consists of 60-70 hours selected from the courses listed below. Course selection is based on a student’s background and career goals. A program of study will be developed by the student and the adviser that involves one or two years at the University of Nebraska before transferring to the University of Missouri or another accredited forestry school. If a student desires to enter the University of Nebraska and later transfer to a forestry school other than the University of Missouri, the student should obtain information about the school’s entrance requirements and curriculum as early as possible to avoid unnecessary loss of credit.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">An agreement with the University of Missouri allows Nebraska residents with the proper scholastic qualifications to enter that institution without paying out-of-state fees. Under this program a student may enter the University of Missouri directly from high school or transfer after one or two years at the University of Nebraska. Students interested in pursuing a pre-forestry program should select courses from the list below:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">STAT 218 Intro to Statistics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 109 General Botany 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 112 Intro to Zoology 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 General Chemistry I &amp; II 8</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">COMM 109 Fundamentals of Human Communication </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> COMM 209 Public Speaking 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 150 Writing: Rhetoric as Inquiry </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ENGL 151 Writing: Rhetoric as Argument </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ENGL 254 Writing &amp; Communities 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">GEOL 101 Physical Geology 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JGEN 200 Technical Communication 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 104 Calculus for Managerial &amp; Social Sciences (3 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I (5 cr) 3-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NRES 101 Natural Resources Orientation 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NRES 103/AGRI 103 Intro to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 151/ASTR 151 Elements of Physics 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SOIL 153 Intro to Soil Science 4</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Law</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Law schools prefer students with broad academic backgrounds. Accordingly, there is no “prelaw” designation. Study toward a bachelor of science degree is excellent prelaw curriculum. There are no particular degree programs or courses students are advised to take to enhance their chances of admission to law school. Students should choose programs and courses that interest them. However, students should take many courses that require writing and complex readings. Students, especially those uncertain about law school, may want to take some courses that focus on law and the courts. While these courses will not enhance chances of admission, they will provide information about the legal system and the legal profession.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Prospective applicants are advised to take the Law School Admission Test (LSAT) during the summer before their last year or the fall of their last year. Information and application materials are available from the Career Services. The Official Guide to US Law Schools, available from the LSAT organization, contains material about the legal profession, the law school experience, the application process, and the individualized information on all American law schools approved by the American Bar Association.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">CASNR students contemplating application to law school may contact Professor David Aiken, adviser in the Department of Agricultural Economics, 103 Filley Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Veterinary Medicine</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Professor David Hardin,</span><span class="generated-style"> School of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, 120C Vet Basic Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Head:</span><span class="generated-style"> Professor Larry Berger, Department of Animal Science, C203 Animal Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Individuals wishing to enter the four-year professional curriculum leading to the degree, doctor of veterinary medicine (DVM), must first complete two or more years of pre-veterinary general education. Courses taken during pre-professional education must satisfy the entrance prerequisites for the college of veterinary medicine of the person’s choice. At the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, it usually requires a minimum of three years to complete the pre-professional requirements, but students must declare an acceptable degree program at the conclusion of their sophomore year. Certain options in the veterinary science and veterinary technology degree programs meet the pre-veterinary requirements of colleges of veterinary medicine. 8 The student should discuss special variations and other colleges of interest with their academic adviser at the earliest possible date.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">The Pre-Veterinary Program IS NOT a degree-granting program. </span><span class="generated-style">Completion of the pre-professional program alone in fulfilling the prerequisites for admission to a college or school of veterinary medicine does not result in the awarding of a degree from the University of Nebraska. Students are to select an appropriate field within which to work toward a college degree while concurrently working toward completion of pre-professional requirements. Students are encouraged to consider courses of study with a degree-granting program in veterinary science (biomedical science, microbiology options, or veterinary medicine options), veterinary technology, animal science, food science and technology, biochemistry or other fields compatible with the pre-professional program that leads to a bachelor of science degree. Students can also complete pre-veterinary prerequisites with a degree program in wildlife or environmental studies, leading to a bachelor of science degree. It is also possible to pursue these pre-veterinary requirements in degree-granting programs outside the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, such as the College of Arts and Sciences.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Students are expected to designate an acceptable degree program by the end of their sophomore year and to work with an adviser in that field. </span><span class="generated-style">Additional advisory support relating to pre-professional requirements and admission policies is provided by advisers within the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources, University of Nebraska–Lincoln.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The program utilizes an “Advising Plus” model which involves faculty from the School of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences (Laura Hardin, Rodney Moxley, and Michael Carlson) and the Department of Animal Science (Dennis Brink and Thomas Burkey). Team advising will be utilized to expose students to all the opportunities in animal health and assist them in identifying the appropriate degree program.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students interested in veterinary medicine are encouraged to participate in the Pre-veterinary Club to learn about the exciting advancement and developments within the profession.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">It is not recommended that pre-veterinary students take any courses on a Pass/No Pass basis (unless this is the only grading option for a given course, e.g. VBMS 101) because courses taken Pass/No Pass may not be accepted for pre-professional prerequisites. Letter grades are required to evaluate credentials of applicants for veterinary college admission.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">See individual degree programs for specializations in those areas.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
