<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Business Administration Main Page</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="business-administration-main-page">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="college-name"><span class="generated-style">College of Business Administration</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Dean: Donde Plowman</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Dean:</span><span class="generated-style"> Kathleen Farrell</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Dean:</span><span class="generated-style"> Ravi Sohi</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Dean:</span><span class="generated-style"> D’vee Buss</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Dean:</span><span class="generated-style"> Rik Barrere</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website:</span><span class="generated-style"> http://cba.unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">College Admission </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The entrance requirements for the College of Business Administration are the same as the UNL General Admission Requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students admitted to the College of Business Administration with core course deficiencies will be advised to remove these deficiencies according to the </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Office of Admissions’ Removal of Core Course Admission Deficiency</span><span class="generated-style"> guidelines. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">College-level course work taken to remove deficiencies MAY NOT be used to meet degree requirements in CBA.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADVISING</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Academic Advising </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Dean’s Office for Undergraduate Programs</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are encouraged to obtain information and advice through the Dean’s Office for Undergraduate Programs, CBA 114.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The staff, which includes both professional staff and peer advisers, are well trained, easily accessible, and can provide academic counseling and answer questions on specific degree requirements, transfer credits, prerequisites, changes in major or college, waivers, procedures or policies, and other available campus services. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Professional Staff:</span><span class="generated-style"> Mark Davis, Bede Bolin, Jeff Burdic, Betsy Klemme, Eric Einspahr, D’vee Buss, Megan Friesen</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Career Services.</span><span class="generated-style"> While staff and faculty advisers may assist in career advising, the College works closely with the University’s Career Services Office to provide assistance to CBA students. Students should schedule time each semester to visit with the Career Coaches located in CBA 139. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Responsibility </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The University of Nebraska–Lincoln and the College of Business Administration are committed to providing effective academic advising to students.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Academic advisers are available to assist students in assessing educational goals, planning programs of study, understanding program requirements, and following policies and procedures. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are ultimately responsible for fulfilling all the requirements of the curriculum in which they are enrolled. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are responsible for initiating advising contacts and preparing for advising sessions. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The mentoring relationship between academic advisers and students is confidential and is strengthened by advisers’ listening with understanding to student concerns. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are expected to take responsibility for a successful university experience and effective advising session. For this to occur the student must:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Participate in New Student Enrollment, priority registration programs, and any other University/College programs designed to enhance the student-life experience.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Review DARS (Degree Audit Report) each semester and each time you make a change to your schedule. Schedule appointments with advisers well in advance of priority registration and at other times as needed. Keep appointments and be punctual, or call to reschedule if necessary.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Read the appropriate sections of the Undergraduate Bulletin.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Identify specific questions to address prior to meeting with an adviser and be prepared to do long-term planning.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Provide honest and accurate information to the adviser regarding any concerns, questions, special needs, deficiencies or barriers that might affect academic success.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Follow academic policies and procedures and meet academic calendar deadlines (e.g. registration, fee payment, degree audit, filing for degree, etc.).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Know and complete program requirements.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Seek assistance from the various student support services provided by the University and College.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Immediately notify the University of any change in postal address, email address, and/or phone number.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Academic Load</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A maximum of 19 credit hours (including online and independent study courses through On-line and Distance Education) may be taken each semester without special permission from the Dean’s Office for Undergraduate Programs. The summer sessions have a maximum load of 15 hours. The three week session limit is 3 hours and each five week session has a 7 hour limit.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A minimum of 12 credit hours must be taken each semester to remain a full time student.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To complete the requirements for a degree in eight semesters, a student must earn an average of 15 credit hours each semester. Most students need a minimum of two hours of preparation for every hour in class, so a schedule of 15 credit hours is actually equivalent to a 45 hour a week job (15 classroom + 30 preparation).</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The student who must work or one who may need additional study time, should plan to take a lighter load and consider taking some summer sessions or an extra semester or two to complete the work required for a degree. In the event that a student’s cumulative grade point average falls below 2.5, a lighter academic load may be required.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Exclusions and Restrictions</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">No credit for graduation is allowed for non-college level courses or for courses that deal primarily with the development of skills including the following:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">BSAD 150</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">LIBR 110</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">MATH 100A or any math credit lower than 100A</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Driver training education</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Industrial arts (including courses concerned primarily with manual skills, tools, machines, or industrial processes and design)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Vocational and Adult Education classes</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Any introductory computer course training in word processing, spread-sheets, data base management, or other business software packages</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Certificate program credit (such as the Nebraska Bankers Association, CEP credit, etc.)</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Maximum/Minimum hour restrictions:</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Maximum semester hour restrictions:</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Hour Restrictions</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">14 hours of military credit</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">9 hours Pass/No Pass (allowable only as electives)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">60 hours from community college/foreign institution</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">90 hours from four-year institutions</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">15 hours of business course work may transfer towards the Business Core and Business Electives from another institution. Actuarial Science students may additionally transfer STAT 462 and STAT 463.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">With a maximum of 3 hours in BCI</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">With a maximum of 3 hours in BCA</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">“X” Course Restrictions</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">3 hours of ‘X’ course work per semester</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Minimum semester hour restrictions: </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">120 hours of applicable degree credit for the degree</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">60 hours of business course work</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">45 hours of business core course work completed at UNL (with further BCI and BCA restrictions)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">75% of </span><span class="basic-text-bold">required</span><span class="generated-style"> business course work must be taken at UNL (with further BCI and BCA restrictions) </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Other Course Restrictions/Exclusions:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style"> Any restrictions noted specifically by departments. Credit towards the degree may be earned in only one course, including honors section from each group of courses listed below:</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 312 or AGRO 360</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 313 or BIOS 314</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 105, 109, 111, 113,195</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 116 or CHEM 221</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 251 and more than 1 cr of CHEM 263</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 471 or CHEM 481</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 252D or CSCE 155N</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 252D or ENGM 112</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 252D or ELEC 121</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 340 or CSCE 480</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 210 or ECON 211 and ECON 212 </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 215, CRIM 300, EDPS 459 or STAT 218</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FREN 201 and FREN 202, or FREN 210</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 150 and/or GEOG 152 or GEOG 155</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">GEOL 100 or GEOL 101 or GEOL 101H</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">GEOL 103 or GEOL 105</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">GERM 201 and GERM 202, or GERM 210</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">GREK 102 or GREK 151</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">LATN 102 or LATN 201</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 101 and/or MATH 102 or MATH 103</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 104 or MATH 106</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 200 or MATH 300</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 201 or MATH 301</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 340 or ENGM 480</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 141 or PHYS 151</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 151 or MSYM 109</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 205 or CRIM 251</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 311 or CRIM 337</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 474 or CRIM 413</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">SPAN 201 and SPAN 202, or SPAN 210</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maintenance of 2.5 cumulative grade point average </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A 2.5 cumulative grade point average is required to enroll in ACCT 201 and ACCT 202, ECON 215, BLAW 371, BLAW 372, FINA 361, MNGT 331, MNGT 360, MNGT 475, MNGT 350, MIST 350, MRKT 350, and MRKT 341. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Grades of C or better are required to transfer courses from other institutions. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Grades of C or better in specified prerequisite course work (i.e. MATH 101 to enroll in MATH 104; ACCT 201 to enroll in ACCT 202, etc.)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">University of Nebraska System transfers that are not included in the course work identified above require a D- or better grade. Students at system schools need to remember that their grade point transfers with them.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Credit Rules</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Credit by Examination </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="basic-text-bold">Credit by examination</span><span class="generated-style"> is generally not available for courses offered by the College of Business Administration, with the exceptions noted.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students who feel substantial work experience should satisfy course requirements may approach the appropriate school or department for possible credit by exam options. Credit, however, is not simply given for work experience.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">BSAD 150 Credit by Examination</span><span class="generated-style"> is offered several times each year for BSAD 150. See http://cba.unl.edu/academics/busadmin/resources/bsad150/index.aspx </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The College Level Examination Program (CLEP)</span><span class="generated-style"> is available for students wishing to test out of Macro- and Microeconomics and Principles of Marketing and several non-business courses. Additional information can be found at: http://www.unl.edu/ous/student_programs/credit.shtml </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Dual Degrees</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students may obtain a dual degree by simultaneously enrolling in and completing requirements in the College of Business Administration and another college on campus. Students will need to consult with both colleges to ensure all requirements are satisfied.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Secondary Teaching Certification</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Teaching certification is granted by the Nebraska Department of Education after completing endorsement requirements in one or more approved area(s). A list of approved endorsement areas can be found under “Endorsements” in the College of Education and Human Sciences section. Given the number of elective course options in the business program and with early planning and careful selection, students may integrate the certification requirements with CBA graduation requirements. Students interested in obtaining a teaching certificate should contact the director of the College of Education and Human Sciences Student Services Center, 105 Henzlik Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Honors Program </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Business Administration participates in the Nebraska Honors Program both in and out of the classroom. University Honors Program courses are accepted to fulfill degree requirements and the College works with departments and individual students to design upper-level course work of specific interest to honors students. For additional information concerning the program, see “Nebraska Honors.”</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Honors students also have the option to complete MNGT 475H Honors Business Policies and Strategies in place of the thesis, providing all prerequisites are completed (not in progress). This honors-section course is offered Spring Semester only.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The purpose of the Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management is to produce unique graduates who combine business knowledge and computing fundamentals for enterprise information and software systems. Graduates will be professionals who understand the multiple levels of new information systems and who become the technology sector’s innovators, product developers, entrepreneurs, chief information officers, and CEOs.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The program is designed to not only improve students’ ability to create information technology applications and solutions, but also the capacity to understand the implications of information technology for business and society. The program will produce graduates with high technical proficiency as well as a strong sense of the business problems and organizational needs that information systems are intended to serve.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students interested in learning more about the Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management program are encouraged to call 402-472-6000 or visit the program website at raikes.unl.edu.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management requirements differ from those listed in the bulletin. Students work closely with the program’s advisers on appropriate sequencing and enrollment in Raikes-specific requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Recognition</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Dean’s List/Degrees with Distinction/Scholarships </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Dean’s List</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College recognizes students for academic achievement during the fall and spring semesters by placement on the College Dean’s List. To qualify for the Dean’s List, students must complete 12 or more credit hours for a grade (excluding hours with P, NP, NR and I marks) during the semester and attain a grade point average of 3.6 or higher.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Degrees with Distinction</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In recognition of outstanding academic excellence, the college recommends the bachelors degree </span><span class="basic-text-ital">With Distinction</span><span class="generated-style">, </span><span class="basic-text-ital">With High Distinction</span><span class="generated-style">, and </span><span class="basic-text-ital">With Highest Distinction</span><span class="generated-style">. Students are recommended for this honor by the Scholarship, Honors, and Awards Committee of the College. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To be eligible for consideration students must:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">complete 45 credit hours for a letter grade (excluding Pass/No Pass marks) at UNL prior to the semester in which they graduate, and </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">must have completed 60 such credit hours at UNL at the time they graduate. </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To determine the level of distinction, the Committee uses the cumulative grade point average based on all credit hours taken at UNL prior to the beginning of the term in which the student receives his or her degree. No specific cumulative grade point average is required but the honor is limited to approximately ten percent of the graduating class. This usually means a 3.8 (or higher) GPA. Students will be notified of the distinction, high, or highest distinction designation approximately one month before graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">International Study/Study Abroad</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Study Abroad</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Business Administration has several outstanding study abroad programs where students may enroll and complete course work for their degree requirements at a foreign institution or at an international site. Students should identify their intentions early in their program to ensure the appropriate sequencing and transfer of credit. More information can be found at: http://cba.unl.edu/outreach/abroad/index.aspx.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Nebraska at Oxford program</span><span class="generated-style"> allows undergraduate students to study British political and economic policy at Oxford University in the summer. Students earn credit for ECON 466 and ECON 467 which count for the BSAD, IBUS, and ECON majors; and non-business students may also participate and earn ECON 466 and THEA 398 credit. ECON 211 and ECON 212 must be completed to participate in this program.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Senshu University in Japan</span><span class="generated-style"> gives students an opportunity to study and earn 17 hours in business and Japanese language in Tokyo, Japan. Credit for BSAD 491 (up to 6 hours) will count for BSAD and IBUS majors (6 hours) and 3 hours for MNGT and FINA majors. The advisers in CBA 114 can explain the language credit options for IBUS majors; other business majors receive elective credit for completion of the language courses.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Consortium of Universities for International Business</span><span class="generated-style"> offers summer and semester graduate and undergraduate business courses in the Veneto region in Italy. Due to the extensive credit options available, students should reference the above website for applicable degree credit.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">ESCEM School of Business and Management</span><span class="generated-style"> in Poitiers, France, offers graduate and undergraduate work in management. Depending on fall/spring semester options, students should reference the above website for applicable degree credit.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Study abroad in China</span><span class="generated-style"> is a three-week summer program on Chinese business and culture, with an extended opportunity for those interested in an international internship. Students earn 3-6 hours of credit for BSAD 491 which will count in the major for BSAD and IBUS majors.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Mexico, Spain, Australia, and Others.</span><span class="generated-style"> Other programs are available in many countries with many credit hour options. Students should refer to www.unl.edu/affairs/ for additional information and opportunities.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Senior Check/Degree Audit</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Degree Audit</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">To be prepared for an on-time graduation, students should continue to monitor their progress through their Degree Audit (DARS), which is a personalized report of degree requirements that can be accessed through MyRED. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Each semester, your degree audit will report where courses are being used to fulfill degree requirements, those completed, and courses yet to be taken. Students should check their degree audit each time they change their schedule.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Your degree audit will report the following message “ALL REQUIREMENTS COMPLETED–IN PROGRESS COURSES USED” at the beginning of the intended graduation semester if everything is in order for graduation. </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Senior Check</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style"> In the term after which a student has completed 85 hours, Graduation Services (109 Canfield Administration Building) will perform a “senior check.” Students will be provided with a copy of the degree audit which informs students about requirements that need to be completed to receive the degree.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Graduation Requirements</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Each student who expects to receive a diploma must have a minimum 2.5 cumulative grade point average to file an application for degree candidacy. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">At the beginning of the semester in which the student is graduating, the student must file an application for the degree with Graduation Services, 109 Canfield Administration Building. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Announcements regarding graduation deadline dates are posted on campus bulletin boards and published in the </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Daily Nebraskan</span><span class="generated-style"> and the College. DEADLINES ARE EARLY IN THE SEMESTER.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are responsible for informing the Office of the University Registrar of the manner in which they are completing their requirements (i.e., by independent study, clearance of incompletes, enrollment at another institution, special examinations, etc.); and of any revision of such plans. In addition, any change in address, email, or phone number should be specifically directed to this office (and updated through MyRED) to avoid a postponement of graduation until a later semester.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Standing/Classification</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Second semester freshmen</span><span class="generated-style"> who have completed MATH 104 (or higher) with a grade of “C” or better and have a cumulative 2.5 GPA over at least 14 credit hours earned at UNL, may enroll in ACCT 201 (which normally requires sophomore standing). Freshmen are also permitted to enroll in ECON 211 or ECON 212 upon completion of 12 hours of UNL credit.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Sophomore Standing.</span><span class="generated-style"> For admission to sophomore standing, a student must have earned a minimum of 27 semester hours of credit. It is expected that students will have removed any entrance deficiencies by this point in the program and should maintain a 2.5 cumulative GPA to remain on sequence for graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Junior Standing.</span><span class="generated-style"> A student has junior standing after meeting the requirements for sophomore standing and completing 53 semester hours of credit. It is expected that students will maintain a 2.5 cumulative GPA to remain on sequence for graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Senior Standing.</span><span class="generated-style"> A student has senior standing after meeting the requirements for junior standing and completing 89 semester hours of credit. It is expected that students will maintain a 2.5 cumulative GPA to remain on sequence for graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Substitutions and Waivers</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Curriculum and/or Policy Appeals</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The faculty of the College has established degree requirements and policies and procedures. Any exceptions to the rules (substitutions and/or waivers) are made as a written appeal to the faculty through the Academic Planning Committee of the College. This request can be made only in unusual circumstances and cannot serve as an excuse for not following college guidelines. Students should meet with an adviser in CBA 114 to discuss options, specific instructions, and procedures for consideration of an appeal.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Grade Appeal</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who believe they have received an unfair grade may take the following sequential actions to appeal a grade:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The student must discuss the situation with the instructor involved.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">If no acceptable solution is reached, the student may file a written grade appeal with the Grade Appeal Committee of the specific department or school in the College within the first 20 days of the academic semester following receipt of the course grade. In making his or her appeal, the student must allege that the guarantees contained in Section II, Part B, of </span><span class="basic-text-ital">The Student in the Academic Community</span><span class="generated-style">, have been violated. The Committee may be contacted through the department chair or school director.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">If either the instructor or the student disagrees with the decision of the Grade Appeal Committee, a written appeal may be filed with the Collegiate Grade Appeals Committee, which may be contacted through the Dean’s Office for Undergraduate Programs.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Grade Option Appeal/Late Withdrawal Appeal:</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Appeals to change the grade option in a course after the deadline, as well as any late withdrawal requests must be made in writing to the College Grading and Examinations Committee. Restrictions, options, and forms for either of these procedures may be obtained from the Dean’s Office for Undergraduate Programs, CBA 114. The College generally expects any appeal request to be made within a reasonable time frame.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">ACE REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All students must fulfill the Achievement Centered Education (ACE) requirements. Information about the ACE program may be viewed at ace.unl.edu. Students may also use the Bulletin’s course search facility to search for ACE groups. Example: Enter ACE one in the search to generate a list of all possible ACE 1 courses.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">ACE Achievement-Centered Education—Ten Courses (normally 30 hours)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This is the university’s innovative, outcomes-focused general education component designed to enhance the undergraduate experience by providing broad exposure to multiple disciplines, complementing the major and helping students develop important reasoning, inquiry, and civic capacities.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Important rules to remember when selecting course work to meet this requirement:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">There are 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO) and at least one course, equivalent to 3 credit hours, must be taken for each of the 10 SLO’s.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Up to three ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO), 4-10, may be satisfied by work in one subject area;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ACE SLO’s must be satisfied by work in at least three subject areas;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">No ACE course may satisfy more than one ACE SLO in a student’s program;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">If an ACE course addresses two ACE SLO’s, the student decides which one of the two outcomes the course will satisfy in that student’s program. (The degree audit will make an automatic decision based on first course taken; first SLO needed.)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">As part of the college requirements of non-business and business courses, many courses will also work for ACE. Students should carefully review required course work with ACE options to make the best use of courses to fulfill both degree requirements as well as UNL ACE requirements.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">BULLETIN TO USE </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students (including transfer students) must follow the Undergraduate Bulletin in effect when they </span><span class="basic-text-bold">enroll</span><span class="generated-style"> in the College of Business Administration. Students who leave the college and return or those applying for ‘readmission’ to the College are subject to requirements in place at the time of their </span><span class="basic-text-bold">re-enrollment</span><span class="generated-style"> in the College.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">College General Education Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The curriculum requirements for the College consist of course work in three areas.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All course work (except electives and where otherwise noted) must be taken for a grade.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The three areas include the following:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Non-Business Requirements (NBR)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">– which consist primarily of College and University ACE (Achievement-Centered Education) course work </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Business Core</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">– Foundation (BCF), which also includes ACE 6 &amp; 8</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">– Intermediate (BCI)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">– Advanced-Major (BCA-M) </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">– Advanced-Capstone (BCA-C), (ACE 10) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Electives </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Non-Business Requirements (NBR)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">(Most of the ACE requirements)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Eight Courses (normally 24-26 hours)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">All students in the College of Business Administration will take the following non-business courses (unless otherwise noted).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-3"><span class="generated-style">While NBR 1, 2, 7 and 8 identify specific ACE options to choose from or identify an ACE course specifically required for the College, NBR 3, 4, 5, and 6 allow for students to select courses according to their personal interests (and meet ACE 4, 5, 7, and 9).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-3"><span class="generated-style">Most students will take course work to fulfill these requirements during the freshman/sophomore year. However, if hours are still needed during the junior/senior year, there may also be options to ‘double count’ course work for NBR 3 (ACE 4) and/or NBR 6 (ACE 9) toward the major (BCA-M) or a minor. This is likely to be of most benefit to ‘transfer-in students’ due to the nature of the program and when ACE requirements are traditionally taken.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">All course work for NBR must be taken for a grade.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">NBR 1: Written Communication (ACE 1)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-ital">Choose ONE of the following:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 101 Writing: Rhetoric &amp; Reading</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 150 Writing: Rhetoric as Inquiry</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 151 Writing: Rhetoric as Argument</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students should refer to the course descriptions to select the </span><span class="basic-text-bold">one</span><span class="generated-style"> course best suited to individual interests. While several communication courses can be selected to fulfill the university ACE 1 outcome, </span><span class="basic-text-bold">one</span><span class="generated-style"> of the above is a specific requirement for the College of Business Administration and will fulfill both requirements with one course.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">NBR 2: Mathematical, Computational, Statistical or Formal Reasoning Skills (ACE 3)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-ital">Choose ONE of the following:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 104 Calculus for Managerial &amp; Social Sciences (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Any advanced calculus course above the 106 level</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Notes regarding the selection of course work for NBR 2 (ACE 3):</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">Credit cannot be given for both MATH 104 and MATH 106.</span><span class="generated-style"> Students must determine the appropriate course early in their program.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">– A first semester student’s score on the Math Placement Exam will determine eligibility for MATH 104 or 106. The student should select between these classes based on the following sets of circumstances.</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">– Actuarial Science</span><span class="generated-style"> majors </span><span class="basic-text-bold">MUST</span><span class="generated-style"> take </span><span class="basic-text-bold">MATH 106 </span><span class="generated-style">(or a higher-level calculus). </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">– Actuarial science majors will also take MATH 107 (5 cr) and MATH 208 (4 cr) and CSCE 101 &amp; CSCE 101L (4 cr).</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">RAIKES</span><span class="generated-style"> students </span><span class="basic-text-bold">MUST</span><span class="generated-style"> take </span><span class="basic-text-bold">MATH 106 </span><span class="generated-style">(or a higher-level calculus)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 (or higher calculus) is </span><span class="basic-text-ital">strongly</span><span class="generated-style"> encouraged for those students considering graduate school. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">While several courses can be selected to fulfill the university ACE 3 outcome, </span><span class="basic-text-bold">one</span><span class="generated-style"> of the above is a specific requirement for the College of Business Administration and will fulfill both requirements with one course.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Math Placement Exam (MPE)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students admitted to the College of Business Administration are required to take a Math Placement Examination prior to enrolling in the college math requirement of MATH 104 or MATH 106 (or higher math). </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The results of this examination determine which math course students will enroll in their first semester on campus.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students lacking sufficient high school preparation in math may need to enroll in equivalent high school preparatory courses, as will be designated on the MPE.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Preparatory courses should be taken as soon as possible to avoid future sequencing problems.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Additional information about the exam can be found at www.math.unl.edu.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Whether required to enroll in preparation course work first, as indicated on the MPE (MATH 100A, MATH 101 and/or MATH 103), or in one of the required courses, it is critical to begin MATH the first semester on campus.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">NBR 3: The Study of Scientific Methods and Knowledge of the Natural and Physical World (ACE 4)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-ital">Choose one course from ACE 4 Certified Courses</span><span class="generated-style">. (Course credit will vary between 3-4 credit hours.)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ABUS majors – NBR 3 (ACE 4) – AGRI 115, AGRO 131, ENTO 115, MSYM 109, NRES 108, PLPT 110 may be taken to fulfill the science requirement (NBR 3–ACE 4) as well as a requirement for the major (BCA-M). </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">NBR 4: Study of Humanities (ACE 5)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-ital">Choose one course from ACE 5 Certified Courses.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">IBUS majors – NBR 4 (ACE 5) – FREN 301, FREN 302; RUSS 301, RUSS 302, RUSS 482, RUSS 483; SPAN 421 or SPAN 445 can be taken to fulfill NBR 4–ACE 5 – as well as a requirement for the international business major or a language minor. And, if used for ACE 5 AND the MAJOR, it cannot be used for the college requirement of 12 hours of 300/400-level course work in electives but can if used for ACE 5 AND the MINOR.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">NBR 5: Study of the Arts to Understand Their Context (ACE 7)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-ital">Choose one course from ACE 7 Certified Courses.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">NBR 6: Global Awareness or Knowledge of Human Diversity Through Analysis of an Issue (ACE 9)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-ital">Choose one course from ACE 9 Certified Courses.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students enrolling for their first semester with junior standing (or more), will see that the list of approved courses includes a few business courses. While this section is labeled “non-business requirements,” students may elect to enroll in one of the business courses to fulfill the ACE 9 requirement as long as prerequisites are completed (which are generally reserved for juniors or seniors). Work closely with your adviser to bring this to their attention and to question how this course may potentially satisfy other degree program requirements, including the major. The options include:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ACTS majors – must complete an International Business Course as part of the degree requirements. Actuarial science majors may choose to take ECON 321, International Economics to fulfill the IBCR as well as the global awareness requirement (NBR 6–ACE 9).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ABUS majors – AECN 346, AECN 367, AECN 420, AECN 425, AGRI 282, ENSC 110, HORT 200, may be taken to fulfill the global awareness requirement (NBR 6–ACE 9) as well as a requirement for the major. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">BSAD majors – ECON 321, MNGT 365, MNGT 414 may be taken to fulfill the global awareness requirement (NBR 6–ACE 9) as well as a requirement for the major. (ECON 321 and MNGT 414 are also IBCR course options.) </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ECON majors – ECON 321 may be taken fulfill the global awareness requirement (NBR 6–ACE 9) as well as a requirement for the major. (ECON 321 is also an IBCR option.)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">IBUS majors – ECON 321, MNGT 414 may be taken to fulfill the global awareness requirement (NBR 6–ACE 9) as well as a requirement for the major. (Both are also IBCR options.)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">MNGT majors – MNGT 365, MNGT 414 may be taken to fulfill the global awareness requirement (NBR 6–ACE 9) as well as a requirement for the major. (MNGT 414 is also an IBCR option.)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">An alternative to the above options is allowance of the course to count for NBR 6–ACE 9 and the associated minor—but only one or the other (major OR minor). </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">In any of the above instances where a double counting is an option, only 3 hours of credit are awarded; student will still need to meet the 120 hours for graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">NBR 7: Business Communication (ACE 1)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">JGEN 220 Business Communication Strategies</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">This is a business writing course with sophomore standing with 3 hours of composition as a prerequisite. While it is also an ACE 1 course, as is ENGL, </span><span class="basic-text-bold">BOTH</span><span class="generated-style"> ENGL and JGEN are specific requirements for the College of Business Administration.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">RAIKES students will complete RAIK 287H and RAIK 288H instead of JGEN 220.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">NBR 8: Oral Communication Skills (ACE 2)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Due to the importance of this course to the business curriculum, the college recommends taking this course on campus.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Sophomore standing is a prerequisite to enroll in this oral business speaking class; and while several other courses may be selected to fulfill the university ACE 2 requirement, COMM 286 is a specific requirement for the College of Business Administration.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">RAIKES students will complete RAIK 187H and RAIK 188H instead of COMM 286.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> In the selection of course work for any of the above NBR’s, prerequisites, when stated anywhere in this bulletin, means course work MUST BE COMPLETED to enroll in the class. Concurrent enrollment in any identified prerequisite(s) is NOT permitted unless so indicated in the course description.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Core – Four Sections (approximately 56-69 hours)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Core Foundation (BCF)</span><span class="basic-text-bold"> –</span><span class="generated-style"> 17 hours</span><span class="basic-text-ital"> </span><span class="list-ital">(1 hour not applicable toward 120 hours)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Core Intermediate (BCI)</span><span class="basic-text-bold"> –</span><span class="generated-style"> 18 hours</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M) </span><span class="list-ital">(hours vary from 18-33 hrs)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Core Advanced–Capstone (BCA-C) </span><span class="list-ital">(3 hours + 0 hour assessment)</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The foundation and intermediate courses are designed to expose students to the various business disciplines. The advanced courses are those courses identified for each of the nine majors, and the capstone course is taken the final semester of the program. All course work for the Business Core (except where noted differently), must be taken for a grade.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Business Core Foundation (BCF) – Seven Courses (17 hours)</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">All students in the College of Business Administration will take the following courses (unless otherwise noted).</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All course work (except 101 &amp; 150) must be taken for a grade.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">RAIKES students will complete a different series of course work for the Business Core Foundation:</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">– Foundation: RAIK 181H, RAIK 182H, RAIK 282H &amp; STAT 218</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">– Leadership Series: RAIK 185H, RAIK 186H, RAIK 285H, RAIK 286H</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">– Computer Science Foundation: RAIK 183H, RAIK 184H, RAIK 283H, RAIK 383H</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">BCF 1–BSAD 101 Business Leadership Development (1 hr)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">1-credit-hour course </span><span class="basic-text-ital">(offered Pass/No Pass only)</span><span class="generated-style">. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Required of all new freshmen.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">An active exploration, examination, and pursuit of fundamental concepts and principles of leadership development and how they relate to all fields within business administration. Also covered is a broad orientation to all domains of business administration, including activities, assignments, and exercises.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Take this course as a freshman </span><span class="basic-text-ital">(preferably first semester)</span><span class="generated-style">.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">BSAD 101 is waived for Chancellor’s Leadership, Raikes, and transfer students who have completed 27 hours.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">BCF 2–BSAD 150 Business Computer Applications (1 hr)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">1-credit-hour course </span><span class="basic-text-ital">(offered Pass/No Pass only).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Hour not applicable toward 120 hours for degree.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Required during freshman year </span><span class="basic-text-ital">(preferably first semester).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Required basic-skills computer course, use Access, Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, and Excel; students will complete group projects and group tests.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Advanced computer applications students may wish to “test out” via the Credit by Exam option instead of taking the class. Refer to the BSAD 150 website for additional information.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">RAIKES students do not need to complete this requirement.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">BCF 3–ACCT 201 and ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting I &amp; II (3 hrs ea)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Sequential; take ACCT 201 first </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisite: Sophomore standing, 2.5 cumulative GPA; or freshman standing with completion of MATH 104 with a grade of C or better, and a 2.5 cumulative GPA earned in 14 hours of UNL credit</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">RAIKES students will complete a different series of course work for the Business Core Foundation: </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">– Foundation: RAIK 181H, RAIK 182H, RAIK 282H &amp; STAT 218</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">– the Leadership Series: RAIK 185H, RAIK 186H, RAIK 285H, RAIK 286H</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">– Computer Science Foundation: RAIK 183H, RAIK 184H, RAIK 283H, RAIK 383H</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting II</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Sequential; take ACCT 202 following completion of ACCT 201</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisite: Sophomore standing; grade of C or better in ACCT 201; 2.5 cumulative GPA</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade of C or better in ACCT 202 to enroll in upper-level ACCT classes</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">BCF 4–ECON 211 and ECON 212 Principles of Macro &amp; Microeconomics (ACE 8/6) (3 hrs ea)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Not sequential </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisite: Completion of 12 hours of UNL course work</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">RAIKES students will satisfy their ACE 8/6 requirement with RAIK 182H/BSAD 182H &amp; RAIK 282H/BSAD 282H </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Same as above</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">BCF 5–ECON 215 Statistics (ACE 3) (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisites: Sophomore standing; MATH 104/MATH 104H or MATH 106/MATH 108H; BSAD 150; 2.5 GPA</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Must take ECON 215 (not STAT 218 nor EDPS 459 nor CRIM 300 nor SOCI 206)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Actuarial science majors MUST take STAT 380 instead of STAT 215; will also take STAT 462 and STAT 463</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Business Core Intermediate (BCI) – Six Courses (18 hours)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Required of all business students regardless of major (except where noted under individual courses)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">RAIKES students will take RAIK 281H and RAIK 381H in place of FINA 361, MNGT 331/SCMS 331, and MIST 350. They will also take RAIK 341H in place of MRKT 341.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Enrollment sophomore and junior year</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All course work must be taken for a grade</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">In addition to differences noted above, RAIKES students will also complete:</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Design Studio courses: RAIK 301H, RAIK 302H, RAIK 401H, and RAIK 402H</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Computer science electives: 6 hrs from the following: CSCE 378, CSCE 476, RAIK 284H</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-3"><span class="generated-style">These hours may be taken Pass/No Pass</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Sequence with the following recommendations/restrictions:</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisites vary for each class; classes are listed in order of those with the fewest to the most prerequisites.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Plan complete sequence of intentions to take BCI (and necessary prerequisites) to remain on schedule for graduation</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">The management courses are all different so; while they can be taken in the same semester, many students choose one or two for each semester.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Enroll in courses most applicable to major as soon as possible, particularly MRKT or FINA, to stay on sequence for major.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">There are exceptions to these requirements for specific majors (ACCT, MRKT, ACTS). Please note those exceptions under the courses.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">If transferring, a maximum of 3 hours may apply with further restrictions on applicability to not exceed the 75% rule.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">BCI 1–BLAW 371 Legal Environment or BLAW 372 Business Law (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">BLAW 371 – Prerequisites: Sophomore standing, MATH 104 (or higher), 2.5 GPA (BLAW 372 – see course description)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ACCT majors </span><span class="basic-text-bold">must take</span><span class="generated-style"> BLAW 372, which has other prerequisites.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">BCI 2 – MNGT 350/MIST 350 Introduction to Management Information Systems or MRKT 350 Introduction to Marketing Information Systems</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisites: Sophomore standing; 2.5 GPA; BSAD 150</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">MRKT and ABUS majors may choose to take MRKT 350, which carries an additional prerequisite of MRKT 341 and ECON 215.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">RAIKES students will take RAIK 281H in place of MNGT 350/MIST 350.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">BCI 3 – FINA 361 Finance (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisites: Sophomore standing; 2.5 GPA; ACCT 201 (or ACCT 306); ECON 211 (or ECON 210); MATH 104 (or MATH 106); and ECON 215 (or STAT 218) </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Actuarial science majors will take FINA 461 instead of FINA 361.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">RAIKES students will take RAIK 381H in place of FINA 361.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">BCI 4 – MRKT 341 Marketing (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisites: Sophomore standing; a 2.5 GPA; ECON 211 and 212.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Raikes students will take RAIK 341H in place of MRKT 341.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">BCI 5 – MNGT 331/SCMS 331 Operations &amp; Supply Chain Management (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisites: Junior standing; 2.5 GPA; and ECON 215 are specific prerequisites. CBA students are expected to have completed non-business requirements in communications and math and the Business Core Foundation to enroll in this course.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">RAIKES students will take RAIK 281H in place of MNGT 331/SCMS 331.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">BCI 6 – MNGT 360 Managing Behavior in Organizations (ACE 6) (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisites: Junior standing; 2.5 GPA are specific prerequisites. CBA students are expected to have completed non-business requirements in communications and math and the Business Core Foundation to enroll in this course.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Business Core Advanced-Major (BCA-M) – (18-31 hours)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students may pursue and reference specific major requirements by clicking on the major: accounting, actuarial science, agribusiness, business administration, economics, finance, international business, management, or marketing.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Course work for the major requires completion of specific, required courses of the department, along with other guidelines. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Refer to the major page for a listing of requirements. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Careful and advanced planning is necessary as some courses for the major may not necessarily be available every semester (particularly summer).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ALL course work for the major must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students may elect to take their International Business Course Requirement (IBCR) as part of their major.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Although a 2.5 GPA is not required to take these courses, a 2.5 is required to apply for graduation; thus, students are expected to maintain this level throughout their collegiate career.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Sequencing of classes is critical, particularly for agribusiness, actuarial science, and international business; plan the major courses well in advance of enrollment.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">By this point in time, the curriculum was designed for ACE (except ACE 10) to have been completed through other course work. If missing an ACE 6, 8, or 9, there may be options through the major to fulfill both requirements.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A maximum of 3 hours of course work may transfer if the 75% rule has not been exceeded. Further restrictions may apply. </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Business Core Advanced-Capstone (BCA-C) – Two Courses (3 hours)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">BCA-C 1 – MNGT 475 Business Policies &amp; Strategies (ACE 10) (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Reserved for graduating seniors, this course requires the Business Core Foundation (BCF) and Intermediate (BCI) course work to be completed for enrollment. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A capstone course integrating business concepts covered throughout the program. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Course MUST be taken at UNL and taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">RAIKES students will take RAIK 382H to fulfill this requirement.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">BCA-C 2 – BSAD 98 Senior Assessment (0 hrs)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A 0 credit-hour seminar required of ALL CBA graduating seniors. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Taught via Blackboard – all components must be completed to a satisfactory level to graduate.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Major Field Test required as part of assessment, which must be passed to graduate.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Electives – Hours Vary to meet 120 hour minimum to graduate</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Electives round out the rest of the 120 hour curriculum where students have the option to choose courses toward a second major, a dual degree, a minor (or two); or, students can simply select courses of personal interest.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Some hours may need to be additional business course work (to meet the requirement that 60 hours of course work be in business). This requirement will vary by major.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">There may be a need to enroll in an international business course requirement (IBCR) if not taken as part of the major or for the business elective(s) requirement.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A minimum of 12 hours of 300/400 upper-level course work beyond the business core is required for most majors to ensure depth is achieved through enrollment in elective hours. See 300/400-level Elective Requirement below for additional information.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">In addition to the Foundation, leadership, and computer science foundation courses listed earlier, RAIKES students will also complete the following courses as part of the degree requirements:</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Raikes Design Studio Courses </span><span class="basic-text-ital">(must be taken for a grade)</span><span class="generated-style">:</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-3"><span class="generated-style">RAIK 301H, RAIK 302H, RAIK 401H, RAIK 402H (ACE 10)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Raikes Computer Science Electives </span><span class="basic-text-ital">(can be taken Pass/No Pass)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-3"><span class="generated-style">Choose 6 hours from: CSCE 378, CSCE 476 or RAIK 284H</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">If not completed through the other area requirements, any remaining ACE requirements will need to be completed as required electives.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Most students will average 35 hours of elective credit; 2nd major options and/or minors may be appropriate to consider for elective hours.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Other Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">International Business Course Requirement (IBCR)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The international business course requirement (IBCR) is to broaden the student’s international perspective. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Each student, excluding accounting majors, must include one course which emphasizes an international perspective.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Actuarial Science majors are encouraged to take FINA 450 if they have not met this requirement with completion of NBR 6 – ACE 9 with ECON 321 or MNGT 414.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The IBCR must be taken for a grade.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The course must be chosen from the following approved list of International Business Course Requirement (IBCR) courses. Many of these courses have prerequisites. Some are restricted for study abroad and others may only be offered once a year. Thus, you are advised to plan ahead in scheduling this requirement into your program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">IBCR Courses</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BSAD 491 International Studies in Business and Economics (1-15 hrs)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Available only to students studying abroad for which there is no UNL equivalent course.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Available also for the Senshu, Japan, and for the China Study Abroad Program.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">3 hrs applicable for MNGT and MRKT major; 6 hours applicable for BSAD or IBUS major.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 321 International Economics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">If not already completed, ECON 321 may double count for the ECON major AND NBR 6–ACE 9, Global Awareness (or toward an ECON or IBUS minor and NBR 6–ACE 9).</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 322 Developmental Economics </span><span class="list-ital">(not regularly available)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 323 Economic Development of Latin America </span><span class="list-ital">(not regularly available)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 388 Comparative Economics Systems </span><span class="list-ital">(not regularly available)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 421 International Trade</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 422 International Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 423 Economics of Less Developed Countries</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 440 Regional Development</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 466 &amp; ECON 467 Pro-Seminar in International Relations I &amp; II</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Courses for the Nebraska at Oxford Program</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 487 Economies in Transition </span><span class="list-ital">(not regularly available)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FINA 450 International Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 398 Special Topics: Comparative International Small Business Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Must be taken for a grade to count.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 414 Leadership in a Global Context</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">If not already completed, MNGT 414 may double count for the MNGT or BSAD or IBUS major AND NBR 6–ACE 9, Global Awareness (or it can count for the MNGT or IBUS minor and NBR 6–ACE 9).</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 453 International Marketing </span><span class="list-ital">(requires 6 hrs of MRKT prerequisites)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">If planned carefully, the IBCR course can count in two places. It is not an extra 3 hours of credit, but rather, is 3 hours embedded within other requirements. If selected carefully, it can also count for 3 hours of credit in the major (i.e. MRKT 453 counts for MRKT elective in MRKT major and would count for the IBCR; FINA 450 counts for FINA elective in FINA major and would fulfill the IBCR as well; etc.). On the other hand, if course work for the major is already determined by personal choices, the IBCR can count in electives, and more specifically, for one of the ‘business’ electives needed for most majors.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">300/400 Upper-level Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">As part of the degree requirements, all students must complete 12 hours of 300/400 level course work.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This can be business or non-business course work.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Business course work from the Business Core Intermediate (BCI), Business Core Advanced-Major (FIRST Major) or Business Core Advanced-Capstone may NOT be used to fulfill this requirement with exceptions noted below:</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">ABUS majors – 31 hour major – if more than 21 hours of course work for the major is taken at the 300/400-level and of those hours, course work is not being double counted toward the NBR and major, the additional 300/400-level hours can be used to fulfill the 300/400-level requirement. You will need to work with an adviser to be sure this works for you.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">FINA majors – you will take between 24 and 30 hours for your major; click on the major to determine how many hours will double count for this requirement, depending on which option you select for the major. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">IBUS majors – may NOT count the 300/400-level course work in language REQUIRED for the major toward this requirement; but any additional 300/400-level language course work that may be taken for a minor WILL count.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Core Advanced-Major course work used for a SECOND major (if picked), or course work selected for a minor MAY count.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Non-business course work (NBR) taken at the 300/400 level may be double counted to fulfill this requirement if it is not being used to double count for the 1st major.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">No course may be taken on a Pass/No Pass basis unless it is 398/399 credit. Only 3 hours of 398/399 is allowed for this requirement.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Actuarial science majors and RAIKES students do not need to meet this requirement due to the additional hours at the 300/400 level required for the major/program.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Business Course/Business Elective Hours</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Sixty (60) hours of business courses are required for the BSBA degree.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The required hours WILL VARY BY MAJOR, dependent on how requirements have been accepted and/or completed throughout the previous components of the program. While </span><span class="basic-text-bold">GENERAL MINIMUM</span><span class="generated-style"> guidelines by major are noted below, the Degree Audit will specify </span><span class="basic-text-ital">minimum business</span><span class="generated-style"> credit hour expectations for each student. You will generally see this addressed under the ELECTIVE section (BUSINESS ELECTIVES) on DARS.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ACCT, ECON, BSAD majors – 3 hours</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">MRKT – 6 hours</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">IBUS – 3 hrs plus additional hours if ‘non-business’ course work (maximum 6 hours) is selected for major.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ACTS – no additional business course work as your major consists of 28 hours of business course work.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">FINA – no additional business course work as your major consists of 24-28 hours of business course work. UNLESS you select AECN 495A under the Banking and Financial Institutions options, and then you will need 3 hours of business electives.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ABUS and RAIK – no additional business course work required due to intent of major as being ‘business-related’ course work.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Additional hours may be required if there is a variation in hours for NBR, BCF, BCI or BCA, or if there is a violation of the 75% rule, the 15 hour rule, etc.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Course work must be taken for a grade except for 398/399 options where grades are generally not permitted</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Foreign Languages/Language Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Other than meeting the minimum requirement for admission to the University, the College does not require any additional work in foreign languages except for the international business major. Students, however, are always encouraged to take language courses.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Hours Required for Graduation</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A minimum of 120 semester hours of credit is required for graduation; more may be necessary if specific degree requirements have not yet been completed. Most students will graduate with 121 hours as BSAD 150 is not applicable toward degree requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">C- and D Grades </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">While students may earn grades of C- or D, there are restrictions and recommendations for such grades and further enrollment options:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade of C or higher in ACCT 201 required to enroll in ACCT 202.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade of C or higher in ACCT 202 required to enroll in any 300/400-level ACCT course.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade of C or higher required in other departmental higher-level sequencing courses (i.e. MATH 101 to take MATH 104, etc.). See course descriptions to determine enrollment restrictions.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Minimum 2.5 cumulative GPA required to enroll in many business courses.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 201, ACCT 202, ECON 215, FINA 361, BLAW 371, BLAW 372, MNGT 331, MNGT 350, MNGT 360, MNGT 475, MRKT 341, MRKT 350</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Grades of C- or lower can be removed by retaking the course at UNL or within the University system (UNK, UNO).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Grades of C or better are required to transfer courses from other institutions.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">University of Nebraska System transfers that are not included in the course work identified above require a D- or better grade. Students at system schools need to remember that their grade point transfers with them.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Academic bankruptcy options may be considered for students who have one or two semesters of poor performance.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Pass/No Pass option is designed for students who want to study areas or topics in which they may have minimum preparation. If used for this purpose, the option can enrich the student’s academic experience without lowering the student’s grade point average. Several restrictions apply when considering the Pass/No Pass option:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">BSAD 101 and BSAD 150 are offered only as Pass/No Pass. Both are required and BSAD 150 does not count toward the 120 hours required for the degree</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="basic-text-bold">Any</span><span class="generated-style"> student in </span><span class="basic-text-bold">any</span><span class="generated-style"> College enrolled at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln may </span><span class="basic-text-bold">NOT</span><span class="generated-style"> take business courses in the College of Business Administration using a the Pass/No Pass option.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">College of Business Administration students may </span><span class="basic-text-bold">NOT</span><span class="generated-style"> take course work to satisfy ACE requirements, the International Business Course Requirement (IBCR), nor </span><span class="basic-text-bold">any</span><span class="generated-style"> required business course work, including the major and minor, using the Pass/No Pass option. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students majoring in actuarial science through the College of Business Administration may </span><span class="basic-text-bold">NOT</span><span class="generated-style"> take any math, actuarial science, or required courses using the Pass/No Pass option. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students may apply no more than 9 hours of elective credit using the Pass/No Pass option (excludes BSAD 101 and 150). </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students taking courses to fulfill the requirements of a minor in an area of study outside the College of Business Administration are subject to CBA rules restricting use of the Pass/No Pass option if courses in their minor are used to meet ACE or any college-specific requirements. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students seeking any minor outside the College should verify rules applying to minimum grade expectations and Pass/No Pass options with the adviser for their minor as additional restrictions may apply and they often vary. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students from UNO/UNK/UNMC and from other institutions are subject to the same restrictions listed here of UNL students.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Exceptions to the above rules are limited to the following and no other exceptions will be made.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">An independent study course (398, 399) may be taken in the College of Business Administration using the Pass/No Pass option with the permission of the instructor and the department chair but College of Business Administration students who qualify for this exception may use the independent study course (398, 399) </span><span class="basic-text-bold">only</span><span class="generated-style"> as elective credit. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Advanced Placement grades of P and Credit By Exam grades of P will be accepted to fulfill degree requirements (with the exception of BSAD 150). These hours will not count against the 9-hour-maximum hours permitted. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students who travel abroad and return with “credit” rather than grades from the institution where they studied may use P grades to fulfill degree requirements. These hours will not count against the 9-hour-maximum number of hours permitted.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A 2.5 cumulative grade point average is required to apply for graduation, as well as a requirement for enrollment in ACCT 201 and ACCT 202, ECON 215, BLAW 371 and BLAW 372, FINA 361, MNGT 331, MNGT 360, MNGT 475, MNGT/MIST or MRKT 350, and MRKT 341. In some instances, a specific grade is required in certain courses to continue with upper-level course work.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Credit Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">See Maximum/Minimum hour restrictions under Course Exclusions and Restrictions</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Level Requirements (Hour Requirement 300+)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition to the Business Core Intermediate and Business Core Advanced and Business Course Advanced Capstone requirements, business students must complete an additional 12 hours of 300/400-level course work in their program (not required for ACTS majors and RAIKES students). Students generally fulfill this requirement through their electives, but there may be a few upper-class students who can fulfill the requirement with the ACE course requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Residency</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">At least 30 of the last 36 hours of credit must be registered for and completed in residence at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students electing to study abroad in their final semester may apply for an appeal of the residency rule.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Extended Education and Independent Study Rules </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">There are many opportunities to earn college credit through the UNL Office of On-line and Distance Education. While many of these credits may be applicable toward fulfilling college-specific requirements, there are restrictions for enrollment and completion. Please refer to http://onlineundergraduate.unl.edu/ for additional information. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Also:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisites must still be completed to enroll in these courses</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Courses must be taken for a grade if being used to fulfill specific-degree requirements.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maximum enrollment options between on-campus and extended education (all options) cannot exceed 19 hours without special permission due to extenuating circumstances.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">No more than 3 hours of “X” (term-based, online courses) can be taken per semester.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Graduating seniors need to pay specific attention to early completion deadlines.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DEGREES &amp; MAJORS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Majors</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Accounting</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Actuarial Science </span><span class="list-ital">(also offered through the College of Arts &amp; Sciences)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Agribusiness </span><span class="list-ital">(also offered through the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Economics </span><span class="list-ital">(also offered through the College of Arts &amp; Sciences)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">International Business</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Management</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Dual Degrees</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Given the number of elective hours available to most CBA students, consideration should be given to the opportunity to pursue a dual degree, which allows simultaneous enrollment in CBA and another college on campus. Students will need to consult with both colleges to ensure all requirements are satisfied in a timely, efficient manner and that double counting of course (where appropriate) is identified in advance of enrollment.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">GRADUATE STUDENT INFORMATION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Graduate program options include:</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">MBA Programs</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Master of Business Administration (MBA)</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Joint Programs</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Master of Business Administration/Master of Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Master of Business Administration/Juris Doctorate</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Master of Professional Accountancy/Juris Doctorate</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Other Masters Programs</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Master of Professional Accountancy (MPA)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Master of Science in Actuarial Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Master of Arts in Business with a specialization in Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Master of Arts in Economics</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Ph.D. Programs</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Business with specializations in:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Accountancy</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Management</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Business with emphasis in:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Management Information Systems (MIS)</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Additional information on all graduate degree programs, including those listed above, can be found in the Graduate Studies Bulletin. For more information, please go to www.unl.edu/gradstudies.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MINORS &amp; AREAS OF SPECIALIZATIONS OFFERED</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minors Outside the College</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The faculty of the College encourages students to minor in a discipline outside the College to develop logical and critical thinking, curiosity, understanding of the external environment and sensitivity to ethical issues. By developing these abilities, students can enrich their lives and provide a broader basis for informed and responsible decision making.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Minors are not required; only recommended.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Course work for the minor may be counted for the minor and ACE if so designated as ACE. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">“PLAN A” requires completion of one minor; “Plan B” requires two minors be completed. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The actuarial science minor is NOT an option for a FINA major.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Double counting of credit towards minors is determined by the department and college offering the minor.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">RAIKES students should designate a computer science minor as most course work is taken as part of the program requirements.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">These are the only minor options available outside the College of Business Administration.</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Actuarial Science</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">African Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">African American Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Agricultural Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Anthropology</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Applied Science </span><span class="list-ital">(formerly Diversified Agricultural Studies)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Art or Art History</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Asian Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Astronomy </span><span class="list-ital">(see Physics)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Biological Chemistry</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Biological Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Child, Youth and Family Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Classics</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Communication Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Community and Regional Planning</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Computer Science</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Conflict and Conflict Resolution</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Criminal Justice</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Czech </span><span class="list-ital">(see Modern Languages)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Dance</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Education</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">English</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Environmental Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Ethnic Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">European Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Film Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">French </span><span class="list-ital">(see Modern Languages)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Geography</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Geology</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">German </span><span class="list-ital">(see Modern Languages)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Gerontology</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Global Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Great Plains Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Greek </span><span class="list-ital">(see Classics &amp; Religious Studies)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">History</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Human Rights and Human Diversity</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Individualized Program of Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Japanese</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Judaic Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Latin </span><span class="list-ital">(see Classics &amp; Religious Studies)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Latino and Latin American Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Medieval and Renaissance Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Meteorology-Climatology </span><span class="list-ital">(see Geosciences)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Military Science</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Music</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Native American Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Philosophy</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Physics</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Political Science</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Psychology</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Public Policy Analysis and Evaluation</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Religious Studies </span><span class="list-ital">(see Classics &amp; Religious Studies)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Russian </span><span class="list-ital">(see Modern Languages)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Sociology</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Spanish </span><span class="list-ital">(see Modern Languages)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Statistics</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Textiles, Clothing and Design</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Theatre Arts</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">U.S. Latina/Latino Studies </span><span class="list-ital">(see Latino and Latin American Studies)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">University Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Women’s and Gender Studies</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minors Within the College</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Business Administration offers the following business minors to business students only.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Minors are not required.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Course work for the minor may be counted for the minor and ACE if so designated as ACE.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The actuarial science minor is NOT an option for a FINA major. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Business course work used for any of these minors cannot be double counted toward the major or other minor requirements, BCF, BCI, BCA-M or BCA-C. (</span><span class="basic-text-ital">See Finance Department for exceptions.)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Business students choosing to minor in economics must follow the CBA economics minor requirement.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Business Minors</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Accounting </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Actuarial Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Economics </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Finance </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">International Business</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Management </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Other Emphases/Tracks</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Finance Majors </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">There are several options available to finance majors:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">general finance</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">banking &amp; financial institutions </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">risk management &amp; insurance</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">CFA® – investments option</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Management Majors</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Management majors can emphasize areas of concentration (as described under the management major) in:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">human resources</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">entrepreneurship</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">strategic management </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">systems and operations management </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Marketing Majors</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Marketing majors can pursue tracks (as described under the marketing major) in:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">merchandising</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">merchandising/design</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">advertising</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Unlike the major and minor, recognition of completion of these emphases/tracks do not appear on the student’s transcript.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">General Business Minor—Plan A Only</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">The minor consists of the following 18 hours:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 200 Accounting for Business Decisions (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 200 Economic Essentials &amp; Issues (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BLAW 300 Business Government &amp; Society (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FINA 300 Financial Decision Making (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 300 Management Essentials for Contemporary Organizations (3 hrs) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 300 Contemporary Marketing (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Please note the following information.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">This minor is available to all other colleges at UNL.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Only nonbusiness students can complete this minor.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Courses in the minor can’t be used towards a degree in business</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisites are enforced.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">No more than one course may be transferred into the minor.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Core transfer course work from non AACSB institutions must be at least a B grade. Business Core transfer courses from AACSB institutions must be at least a C. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students with previous credit in business should see their college adviser for further information.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">OTHER </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Sequence Guide</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The following guide allows for completion of degree requirements within four years. Use the guide to plan for each semester and always refer to the Degree Audit (accessible on MyRED) to determine requirements specific to the major.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">First Year–Freshman</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">BSAD 101, BSAD 150 </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 101 or ENGL 150 or ENGL 151</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 104 (or MATH 106)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE 4, 5, 7, 9</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Electives</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">Total: 31 hours</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">First or Second Year–Freshman/Sophomore</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 201 </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 211 and ECON 212</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Second Year–Sophomore</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 201 </span><span class="list-ital">(if not taken as freshman)</span><span class="generated-style"> and ACCT 202</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 211 and ECON 212 </span><span class="list-ital">(if not taken as freshman)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 215</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">JGEN 220 and COMM 286</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE and/or Electives</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">Total: 30 hours</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Second or Third Year–Sophomore/Junior</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">BLAW 371 </span><span class="list-ital">(non-accounting majors)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 350</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FINA 361</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 341</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Departmental Major Requirements </span><span class="list-ital">(if prerequisites are completed)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Third Year–Junior</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">BLAW 371 </span><span class="list-ital">(if not taken as sophomore)</span><span class="generated-style"> or BLAW 372 </span><span class="list-ital">(accounting majors only)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 350, FINA 361, MRKT 341 </span><span class="list-ital">(if not taken as sophomore)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 331 and MNGT 360</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Departmental Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE and/or Electives </span><span class="list-ital">(300/400 level if not done)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">Total: 30 hours</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Fourth Year–Senior</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Business Electives</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">IBCR </span><span class="list-ital">(if not taken in major)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE and/or Electives </span><span class="list-ital">(300/400 level if not done)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 475 Business Policies &amp; Strategies </span><span class="list-ital">(final semester)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">BSAD 98 Senior Assessment </span><span class="list-ital">(final semester)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">Total: 30 hours</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
