<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Education &amp; Human Sciences Main Page</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="education-human-sciences-main-page">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="college-name"><span class="generated-style">College of Education &amp; Human Sciences</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Marjorie Kostelnik, Ph.D., Dean and Associate Director Agricultural Research Division; Professor of Child, Youth and Family Studies</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Beth Doll, Ph.D., Associate Dean and Professor of Educational Psychology</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Debra Mullen, Ph.D., Associate Dean and Lecturer in Educational Administration</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">For additional information or questions, contact:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Dean’s Office</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">105 Home Economics Building</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">402-472-2916</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">or</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Dean’s Office</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">231 Mable Lee Hall</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">402-472-5400</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Website: http://cehs.unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS) is dedicated to enhancing the lives of individuals, families, schools, and communities and to strengthening the relationships among them. CEHS includes seven departments which collectively offer students a wide range of academic programs that can lead to careers and professions in such areas as:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Education: Careers include teaching in elementary and secondary schools; special education; and speech-language pathology.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Health, Medical or Wellness: Careers include clinical and community nutrition; medical and health programs; fitness and wellness programs; and athletic training.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Human Sciences: Careers include early childhood education; human services; job, family and personal counseling; and social work.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Hotel, Restaurant and Tourism Management and Culinary Science: Careers include working in tourism; event planning; hotel operations; and food product development.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Journalism/Communication: Careers include broadcasting, news editorial and advertising.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Textiles, Clothing and Design: Careers include textile design; apparel design; fashion illustration; visual merchandising; and product development.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The CEHS faculty, academic advisers, and the entire college staff welcome you to explore the many academic and career opportunities our college has to offer UNL students. Please let us know if there is any way we can be of assistance to you. This Web page is designed to conveniently help you find information and answers to any questions you may have. If you are unable to locate what you are looking for, please contact the Student Services Center at 402-472-8625. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">College Admission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students accepted by the University must have an ACT of 20 or SAT of 950, or rank in the upper half of their high school graduating class, and have the following high school preparation to be eligible for guaranteed admission to the College of Education and Human Sciences:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Four years of English that include intensive reading and writing experience; </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Two years of one foreign language;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Four years of mathematics, that include Algebra I, II, geometry and one year that builds on a knowledge of algebra;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Three years of natural sciences that include at least two years selected from biology, physics, chemistry, and earth science and one year of laboratory instruction;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Three years of social studies, to include at least one year of American and/or world history and one year of history, American government, and/or geography.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Transfer and Readmitted Students</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Transfer students from universities or colleges outside of UNL and readmitted students seeking admission to the College of Education and Human Sciences must have an accumulated average of 2.0 on a 4.0 scale or above and no high school deficiencies. Students who do not meet these requirements must enroll as deciding students in the Division of General Studies or in another college. Once they have completed 12 graded hours at UNL with a minimum 2.0 grade point average, and have removed any high school deficiencies, UNL students may apply for admission to the College.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Transfer and readmitted students must meet the graduation requirements for the College of Education and Human Sciences as stated in the current catalog in effect at the time they enter or reenter the College.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who left the College on probation, or who were dismissed, may seek readmission to the College after two semesters by applying to the UNL Admissions Office. Readmission is not assured. However, the admissions committee is receptive to giving students a second opportunity to be successful. The committee is interested in knowing what the student has done in the intervening period that would suggest the student will be successful when readmitted. Successfully completing correspondence courses and/or community college courses is an effective way to demonstrate one’s commitment to academic success.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Transferring from Other Colleges within UNL</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students transferring to the College of Education and Human Sciences from another University of Nebraska–Lincoln college or from the Division of General Studies must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0, be in good academic standing, and meet the freshman entrance requirements that exist at the time of their admission to the College of Education and Human Sciences. </span><span class="basic-text-bold">Students must fulfill degree requirements that exist at the time of their admission to the college, not at the time they enter UNL.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To remain current, College of Education and Human Sciences students must enroll in, and complete, at least one UNL course that will apply toward degree requirements during a 12 month period. Students who readmit following an absence of one year or more must meet all requirements in the Undergraduate Bulletin in effect at the time of readmission and enrollment. Students who transfer to another UNL college and later return to the College of Education and Human Sciences will be considered readmitted students. Students who transfer out of a teacher education program, but who continue their certification program while seeking a degree in another UNL college, are exempt from this policy.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">International Students</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Education and Human Sciences welcomes undergraduate international students. As a part of admission to the College, international students must present a TOEFL score of 550 or higher and TSE score of 230 or higher.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students seeking teacher education and state certification must meet the same requirements as any other undergraduate students, including the Pre-Professional Skills Test or other basic skills test approved by the Nebraska Department of Education. Students who have received a degree outside of the United States and are interested in teacher certification are required to have a transcript review completed by an approved agency not directly associated with the University of Nebraska. For more information, please contact the Student Services Center.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Removal of Deficiencies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students admitted to the University with high school deficiencies are expected to clear up those deficiencies in a timely manner. Students with deficiencies are not eligible for graduation. Students pursuing teaching credentials may use courses to clear admissions deficiencies and towards meeting ACE requirements as well as graduation requirements. Students having majors listed under the Human Sciences, may NOT double count a class to meet both deficiency removal and graduation requirements. The Dean of the College of Education and Human Sciences will make the final decision concerning any problems or questions that may arise in satisfying requirements to remove deficiencies.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADVISING</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">College of Education and Human Sciences students are encouraged to meet with their assigned academic adviser prior to registration for any term (fall, spring, and summer session). Every CEHS student is assigned to an adviser. If you do not know the name of your academic adviser, please call the advising center at 402-472-8625 or drop-by 105 Henzlik Hall. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Education and Human Sciences Student Services Center is staffed with professional advisers who assist students with assessing educational goals, planning programs of study, understanding program requirements and knowing policies and procedures. As course selection and registration are critical to the timely completion of their academic goals, students are well advised to seek regular academic counseling from their assigned advisers in the Center to obtain the most up-to-date information regarding current requirements and timely completion of degree programs. The Center is also staffed with professionals to coordinate field placements, student teaching, and teaching certificate application.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Ultimately, students are themselves responsible for fulfilling all the requirements of the curriculum in which they are enrolled. The intellectual mentoring relationship between academic adviser and student is protected by confidentiality and strengthened by listening with understanding to student concerns. A student remains with an adviser for the duration of the educational program unless the student changes his/her program of study.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Academic Load</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A maximum of 18 credit hours may be taken each semester (up to 4 hours in the Pre-Session; up to 7 in each five-week session; up to 9 in the eight-week session) without special authorization from the Director of Advising. UNL students must be enrolled in 12 hours in a semester to be considered full time. Most first-year students are advised to take no more than 12-15 credit hours in the first semester. This allows new students to make an easier transition from high school to college study. Most students require 2-3 hours of preparation for every hour in class, so a schedule of 12 credit hours is actually equivalent to a 36-48 hour a week job.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Outside work may interfere with academic success. The student who must work should plan to take a lighter load and consider taking some summer sessions or an extra semester or two to complete the work required for a degree. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students should check if restrictions on the number of graded hours each term govern their continued eligibility for medical/auto insurance, scholarships, and/or financial aid.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Credit Rules</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Credit by Exam</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who believe that previous experience satisfies course requirements may approach the appropriate academic department for possible credit by exam options. Credit is rarely given simply for work experience. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Dual Degrees</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the College of Education and Human Sciences may earn a bachelor of science degree from the College of Education and Human Sciences and a bachelor of science degree from another UNL college. Students must complete the degree requirements for both colleges and a minimum of 30 credit hours beyond their primary college.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Recognition</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Dean’s List</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A Dean’s List of Education and Human Sciences and dual matriculated students who meet the stated criteria is published in the fall and spring semesters. To be eligible, students must have a minimum semester grade point average of 3.75 in 12 or more graded semester hours. Exceptions are made for students taking required courses offered only on a Pass/No Pass basis.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Student teachers and practica students who either (1) enter the semester of student teaching with a cumulative GPA of 3.75 or above, or (2) earn a 3.75 GPA during the preceding semester on the basis of 12 or more graded semester hours, will be eligible for the Dean’s List with recommendation from the University supervisor.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Post-baccalaureate students working on certifications are eligible upon request to the Director of Advising, but only undergraduate hours apply.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Degrees with Distinction</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In recognition of outstanding academic excellence, the College of Education and Human Sciences recommends the bachelors degree With Distinction, With High Distinction and With Highest Distinction. All students graduating with distinction must meet the following criteria:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Candidates must have completed at least 60 hours at UNL (Child, Youth and Family Studies students enrolled at UNO) by the time of graduation.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Persons in teaching endorsement programs must satisfactorily complete student teaching; persons in non-endorsement programs must satisfactorily fulfill practica or other internship experiences as required by their programs of study.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Eligibility is based on the cumulative grade point average of all credit hours taken at UNL (UNO) prior to the beginning of the term in which the student receives his or her degree.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Highest Distinction.</span><span class="generated-style"> Candidates for the bachelors degree who have successfully completed the program to which they were admitted and achieved a 4.0 cumulative grade point average.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">High Distinction.</span><span class="generated-style"> Candidates for the bachelors degree who have successfully completed the program to which they were admitted and achieved a 3.950 thru 3.999 cumulative grade point average.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Distinction.</span><span class="generated-style"> Candidates for the bachelors degree who have successfully completed the program to which they were admitted and have achieved a 3.850 thru 3.949 cumulative grade point average.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Undergraduate Scholarships and Fellowships</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition to the scholarships awarded by the University, the College of Education and Human Sciences awards a number of scholarships funded by various donors—individuals, organizations and foundations. Criteria for awarding these scholarships vary to meet the wishes of the donors but often include financial need, academic performance, major area of study and class standing.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Scholarships which vary in amount are awarded annually to incoming first time, transfer, and continuing College of Education and Human Sciences students. First-time freshmen need to complete the UNL Application for Admission and the FAFSA. Continuing students should complete, annually, the scholarship application through their MyRED account, and include a resume. Completion of the FAFSA is also recommended. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Substitutions and Waivers</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In rare cases, there may be a need for students to request a special substitution or waiver to curriculum requirements. Such a request is made only in exceptional and unusual circumstances and cannot serve as an excuse for not following correct degree requirements. Specific instructions and procedures are available from students’ academic advisers in the Student Services Center, 105 Henzlik Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">BULLETIN TO USE</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are responsible for following the rules, policies and requirements found in the UNL Undergraduate Bulletin for the academic year in which they were last admitted to a program in the College of Education and Human Sciences. Students must complete all program requirements from a single bulletin year. In consultation with their adviser, a student may choose to move to and follow a subsequent bulletin if it is in their best interest.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Grade Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Grade requirements vary from major to major. Please see the appropriate major listing or check with your adviser regarding minimum grade requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Option</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">CEHS students are allowed to take up to 12 hours of Pass/No Pass (P/N) credit. The college departments vary on P/N policies. Students should check with their adviser to be certain they qualify for the Pass/No Pass option.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Grade Appeals</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Any student enrolled in a course in the College of Education and Human Sciences who wishes to appeal alleged unfair and prejudicial treatment by a faculty member shall present his/her appeal in writing to the Dean’s Office no later than 30 days after notice of the student’s final course grade has been mailed from campus.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students may use and are encouraged to use the following sequential procedures to appeal the grade. The problem may be solved at any of the levels of the appeal procedure.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Contact the instructor. Frequently the problems can be solved at this point.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Submit a request to the chair of the department.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Take the case to the departmental Grading Appeals Committee. The Committee is contacted by the department chair.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Take the case to the College Appeals, Retention and Certification Committee by contacting the Dean’s Office.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The complaint will be forwarded to a committee consisting of faculty and student representatives. After a hearing, the Committee will make a written recommendation regarding the appeal. The Committee’s recommendation is binding on the appealing student and faculty member.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Credit Rules</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Acceptance of Transfer Grades</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Grades earned at UNL, UNO, UNK</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Grades of D-, D, D+, and C- satisfy requirements in all programs in the College unless specified otherwise. Students who receive a grade of D-, D, D+, C-, however, are encouraged to retake the course.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Grades earned outside the University of Nebraska system</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The college will accept no more than 9 credit hours of grades less than a C from any program outside the University of Nebraska system. Grades below a C can only be applied to general education requirements and elective classes.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Maximum Number of Hours for Transfer</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Transfer courses are evaluated by the University and by the College to determine UNL and College course equivalencies. The College determines which courses will be accepted and how they will apply toward degree requirements. Sixty (60) is the maximum number of hours that will be accepted on transfer from a two-year college. Ninety (90) is the maximum number of hours that will be accepted on transfer from accredited four-year colleges and universities.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Courses taken 10 years before admission or readmission to the College will be evaluated by the major department to determine if it is appropriate to accept those courses for transfer credit and for application to degree requirements. Specific courses will be reviewed in keeping with the guidelines specified by each department.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Credit from Technical, Non-Accredited and Foreign Institutions</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who desire to transfer from these institutions must have each course evaluated by the appropriate departmental representative. All rules stated above in reference to grades and maximum credit hours apply. For additional information and guidance in this process contact the Dean’s Office.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Agreements with UNO and UNK</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Transfer agreements between the three institutions within the University System allow for a smooth transition for students interested in taking courses from UNO, UNK, and/or UNL. Although restrictions noted above on grades and maximum transfer hours still apply, there are some exceptions. For purposes of residency, courses from UNO and UNK fulfill these requirements. Students planning to major in a program in the college should read the specific requirements noted with individual programs. Questions about academic transfer should be addressed to the Advising Office.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Agreements with Community Colleges</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Articulation agreements and “Transfer with Ease Programs” with Nebraska community colleges indicate how courses and programs will transfer to UNL and the College of Education and Human Sciences. The same guidelines noted above on the acceptance of courses, grades, and hours also apply to these institutions. Students interested in transferring from a community college should consult with their school or the Student Services Center to determine which courses will transfer to fulfill specific College of Education and Human Sciences requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Courses from accredited two-year institutions will generally not be substituted for 400-level human sciences classes in the College. The 300-level courses will be considered on an individual basis by the respective departments in the College of Education and Human Sciences.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Courses taken prior to course articulation agreements will be accepted contingent upon departmental validation of the credit.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Residency Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must earn a minimum of 120 credit hours to earn a degree. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All students are expected to complete at least 30 of their final 36 hours of credit at UNL.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Degree Application Process </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">It is the student’s responsibility to notify Graduation Services, 109 Canfield Administration Building, early in the semester the student plans to graduate. Failure to meet the published deadline will delay graduation one full term. Students are encouraged to regularly review their degree audits with their adviser to ensure that they are on the right track toward graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DEGREES &amp; MAJORS &amp;/or ENDORSEMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Alphabetical Listing</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Art Education (K-Grade 12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Athletic Training </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Biology Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Business, Marketing and Information Technology Education (Grades 6-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Child Development/Early Childhood Education</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Child, Youth and Family Studies/Journalism and Mass Communications</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Culinary Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Dietetics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Early Care and Education (Birth-K)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Earth Science Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Elementary Education (K-Grade 6)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Elementary Education (K-Grade 6) and Deaf or Hard of Hearing Education</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Elementary Education (K-Grade 6) and Mild/Moderate Disabilities (K-Grade 6)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Elementary Education (K-Grade 6) and Early Childhood Education (Birth-K)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">English Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">English/Journalism and Mass Communications Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Family and Consumer Science Education (Grades 6-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Family Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">French Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">German Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Hospitality, Restaurant and Tourism Management</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Inclusive Early Childhood Education (K-Grade 3)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Language Arts Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Latin Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Merchandising</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Natural Science Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Nutrition Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Nutrition, Exercise and Health Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Physics Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Russian Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Social Science Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Spanish Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Special Education–Mild/Moderate Disabilities Education (Grades 7-12) </span><span class="list-ital">(listed under Mild/Moderate)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Speech and English Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Speech-Language Pathologist</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Textile and Apparel Design</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Textile Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Textiles, Clothing and Design/Communications</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Theatre and English Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Departmental Listing</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Child, Youth and Family Studies</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Child Development/Early Childhood Education</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Child, Youth and Family Studies/Journalism and Mass Communications</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Early Care and Education (Birth-K)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Family and Consumer Science Education </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Family Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Inclusive Early Childhood Education (K-Grade 3)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Nutrition and Health Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Athletic Training</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Culinary Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Dietetics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Hospitality, Restaurant and Tourism Management</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Nutrition Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Nutrition, Exercise and Health Science</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Special Education and Communication Disorders</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Elementary Education (K-Grade 6) and Deaf or Hard of Hearing Education</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Elementary Education (K-Grade 6) and Mild/Moderate Disabilities Education (K-Grade 6)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Special Education–Mild/Moderate Disabilities Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Speech-Language Pathology</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Teaching, Learning and Teacher Education </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Biology Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Business, Marketing and Information Technology Education (Grades 6-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Earth Science Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Elementary Education (K-Grade 6)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Elementary Education (K-Grade 6) and Deaf or Hard of Hearing Education</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Elementary Education (K-Grade 6) and Mild/Moderate Disabilities (K-Grade 6)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Elementary Education (K-Grade 6) and Early Childhood Education (Birth-K)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">English Education (Grades 7-12) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">English/Journalism and Mass Communications Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">French Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">German Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Language Arts Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Latin Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Natural Science Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Physics Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Russian Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Social Science Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Spanish Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Special Education–Mild/Moderate Disabilities Education (Grades 7-12) </span><span class="list-ital">(listed under Mild/Moderate)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Speech and English Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Theatre and English Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Textiles, Clothing and Design </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Merchandising</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Textile and Apparel Design</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Textiles Science</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Textiles, Clothing and Design/Communications </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Teaching Endorsements Leading to Certification</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Biology Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Business, Marketing and Information Technology Education (Grades 6-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Early Care and Education (Birth-K)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Earth Science Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Elementary Education (K-Grade 6) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Elementary Education (K-Grade 6) and Deaf or Hard of Hearing Education</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Elementary Education (K-Grade 6) and Mild/Moderate Disabilities (K-Grade 6)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Elementary Education (K-Grade 6) and Early Childhood Education (Birth-K)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">English Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">English/Journalism and Mass Communication Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Family and Consumer Science Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">French Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">German Education (Grades 7-12) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Inclusive Early Childhood Education (K-Grade 3)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Language Arts Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Latin Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Natural Science Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Physics Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Russian Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Social Science Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Special Education–Mild/Moderate Disabilities Education (Grades 7-12) </span><span class="list-ital">(listed under Mild/Moderate)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Spanish Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Speech and English Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Theatre and English Education (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">GRADUATE STUDENT INFORMATION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Post-Baccalaureate &amp; Graduate Teacher Certification Programs</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">General &amp; Admission Information</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who have received a bachelors degree or higher and desire to obtain an initial teaching certificate may do so by pursuing a post-baccalaureate initial teaching certification program with or without a masters degree, with the exception of those programs in the Department of Teaching, Learning and Teacher Education, where the certification program must be obtained with a masters degree program. Students must apply (1) to the Graduate College for admission to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln at: www.unl.edu/gradstudies and apply online. On the application form, under Part III: Admission Objective, you should select: Non-Degree, for Nebraska Department of Education Certification (Teaching Certificate–initial). For those teachers who already hold an initial certificate and wish to add a teaching endorsement or renew a certificate, you follow the same procedure above but select: (Adding endorsement(s) or renewing certificate).</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Those students seeking a masters degree along with their teacher certification program, added endorsement, or renewed certificate, will need to submit a (2) SECOND application to the Graduate College, at the same address listed above, and indicate under Part III–which degree program you choose. You may need to submit another application (3) to the specific teacher certification program of your choice, in addition to the first two applications mentioned above. See post-baccalaureate program coordinator for more information. All students seeking a non-degree initial certification program, wishing to add n endorsement or renew a lapsed certificate must contact the post-baccalaureate program coordinator, Joyce Richter at jrichter1@unl.edu or 402-472-8635.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Graduate-Level Initital Teacher Certification Programs</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Business, Marketing &amp; Information Technology (Grades 6-12) 52-82 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must also enroll in a masters degree program.</span><span class="generated-style"> Contact Bill Latta at wlatta2@unl.edu or 402-472-3120.</span></p>
				<p class="endorsements"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Elementary Education (Grades K-6 and MAET masters degree) 44 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">A 14-month accelerated program with masters degree. </span><span class="generated-style">Contact Dr. Steve Swidler at sswidler2@unl.edu or 402-472-0040.</span></p>
				<p class="endorsements"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Family and Consumer Science Education (Grades 7-12) 90-91 hours. </span><span class="generated-style">Contact Joyce Richter at jrichter1@unl.edu or 402-472-8635.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">French Education (Grades 7-12) 80 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must also enroll in a masters degree program.</span><span class="generated-style"> Contact Dr. Ali Moeller at amoeller2@unl.edu or 402-472-2024.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">German Education (Grades 7-12) 80 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must also enroll in a masters degree program. </span><span class="generated-style">Contact Dr. Ali Moeller at amoeller2@unl.edu or 402-472-2024.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Inclusive Early Childhood Education (Grades Birth-3) 99 hours: </span><span class="generated-style">Contact Dr. Chris Marvin at cmarvin1@unl.edu or 402-472-5483.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Latin Education (Grades 7-12) 72-79 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must also enroll in a masters degree program. </span><span class="generated-style">Contact Dr. Ali Moeller at amoeller2@unl.edu or 402-472-2024.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Math Education (Grades 7-12 and MAMT masters degree) 42 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">A 14 month program with masters degree. </span><span class="generated-style">Contact Dr. Steve Swidler at sswidler2@unl.edu or 402-472-0040.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Natural Science Education (Grades 7-12 and MAST masters degree) 42 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">A 14 month program with masters degree. </span><span class="generated-style">Contact Dr. Beth Lewis at ebl@unlserve.unl.edu or 402-472-2251.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Russian Education (Grades 7-12) 80 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must also enroll in a masters degree program.</span><span class="generated-style"> Contact Dr. Ali Moeller at amoeller2@unl.edu or 402-472-2024.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Spanish Education (Grades 7-12) 80 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must also enroll in a masters degree program.</span><span class="generated-style"> Contact Dr. Ali Moeller at amoeller2@unl.edu or 402-472-2024.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Special Education–Mild/Moderate Disabilities (Grades K-6) 44 hours: </span><span class="generated-style">Contact Jill England at jengland2@unl.edu 402-472-2141.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Special Education–Mild/Moderate Disabilities (Grades 7-12) 44 hours: </span><span class="generated-style">Contact Jill England at jengland2@unl.edu 402-472-2141.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Special Education–Mild/Moderate Disabilities (Grades K-12) 54 hours: </span><span class="generated-style">Contact Jill England at jengland2@unl.edu 402-472-2141.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Graduate-Level Added or Supplementary Endorsements and Administrative/Professional Certificates</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Assessment Leadership (Grades P-12) 18 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have or qualify for a standard teaching certificate and complete a masters degree or specialist program. Persons with this endorsement may assist in or facilitate the development of assessment programs for students in Pre-Kindergarten through grade 12. </span><span class="generated-style">Contact: Department of Teaching, Learning and Teacher Education, 402-472-2231.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Counselor, School Guidance (Grades K-6) 47 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid initial teaching certificate and 2 years of teaching experience and must also be admitted into a masters degree program in Educational Psychology.</span><span class="generated-style"> Contact: Department of Educational Psychology, 402-472-2223.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Counselor, School Guidance (Grades 7-12) 47 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid initial teaching certificate and 2 years of teaching experience and must also be admitted into a masters degree program in Educational Psychology.</span><span class="generated-style"> Contact: Department of Educational Psychology, 402-472-2223.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Curriculum Supervisor (Grades P-12) 36 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span><span class="basic-text-ital">This is an Administrative and Supervisory Certificate. Must have or qualify for a standard teaching certificate and complete a masters degree or specialist program. Candidates must be admitted to both Educational Administration and Teaching Learning and Teacher Education and meet exit requirements for both departments. Persons with this endorsement may assist in or supervise the development of curriculum programs for students in pre-kindergarten through grade 12. These qualifications are also available through and within the Principal Endorsement. See adviser.</span><span class="generated-style"> Contact: Department of Educational Administration, Dr. Jody Isernhagen at jisernhagen3@unl.edu or 402-472-1088 or the Department of Teaching Learning and Teacher Education 402-472-2231. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Deaf or Hard of Hearing/Subject (Grades P-12) 30-45 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid initial teaching certificate in Elementary Education, Middle Grades, or Special Education-Mild/Moderate Disabilities. Students without a Special Education certificate are required to take the listed prerequisite courses. Proficiency requirements: Demonstrated proficiency in American Sign Language: successful completion of SLPA 202 or minimum score on Sign Communication Proficiency Interview or EIPA or other approved measure before completion of the program. </span><span class="generated-style">Contact: Jill England at jengland2@unl.edu or 402-472-2141.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Early Childhood Special Education (Birth thru grade 3) 27-39 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid initial teaching certificate in Elementary Education (K-6), Early Childhood Education (P-3) or Inclusive Early Childhood (Birth thru grade 3).</span><span class="generated-style"> Contact: Dr. Chris Marvin at cmarvin1@unl.edu or 402-472-5483. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">English as a 2nd Language (Grades K-6; 7-12; or K-12) 18 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid initial teaching certificate or parallel with one in progress. </span><span class="generated-style">Contact: Dr. Jenelle Reeves at jreeves2@unl.edu or 402-472-2610. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Information Technology (Grades K-12) 19 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid initial teaching certificate or parallel with one in progress. </span><span class="generated-style">Contact: Dr. Al Steckelberg at asteckelberg1@unl.edu or 402-472-5491. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Middle Level (Grades 4-9) 47-56 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid Elementary Education certificate from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. </span><span class="basic-text-bold">Language Arts (20-21 hrs). Math (23-25 hrs). Natural Science (21-25 hrs). Social Science (24 hrs). </span><span class="generated-style">Contact Joyce Richter at jrichter1@unl.edu or 402-472-8635</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Pre-School Disabilities (Birth-K) 30-39 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid initial teaching certificate in Special Education or Speech Pathology. </span><span class="generated-style">Contact: Dr. Chris Marvin at cmarvin1@unl.edu or 402-472-5483. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Principal, Elementary (Grades P-8) 36 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> This is an Administrative and Supervisory Certificate. </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have or qualify for a standard teaching certificate and complete a masters degree or specialist program. Must hold a valid teaching endorsement in Elementary Education or earn an additional 9 hours of Elementary Education coursework. Applicant must have met Nebraska Department of Education requirements for basic skills, human relations training, special education, and have completed two years of teaching experience. </span><span class="generated-style">Contact: Dr. Kent Mann at kmann2@unl.edu or 472-3459. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Principal, Middle Grades (Grades 4-9) 36 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> This is an Administrative and Supervisory Certificate. </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have or qualify for a standard teaching certificate and complete a masters degree or specialist program. Must hold a valid teaching endorsement in Middle Grades or earn an additional 9 hours of Middle Grades coursework. Applicant must have met Nebraska Department of Education requirements for basic skills, human relations training, special education, and have completed two years of teaching experience. </span><span class="generated-style">Contact: Dr. Kent Mann at kmann2@unl.edu or 472-3459.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Principal, Secondary (Grades 7-12) 36 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> This is an Administrative and Supervisory Certificate. </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have or qualify for a standard teaching certificate and complete a masters degree or specialist program. Must hold a valid teaching endorsement in Secondary Education or earn an additional 9 hours of Secondary Education coursework. Applicant must have met Nebraska Department of Education requirements for basic skills, human relations training, special education, and have completed two years of teaching experience.</span><span class="generated-style"> Contact: Dr. Kent Mann at kmann2@unl.edu or 472-3459. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Reading Specialist (Grades P-12) 30-32 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid initial teaching certificate and 1 year of teaching experience. Persons with this endorsement may teach, provide leadership for professional development in the area of reading, and assess and interpret data to determine and implement instructional options for teaching students.</span><span class="generated-style"> Contact: Dr. Kathy Wilson at kwilson3@unl.edu or 402-472-5970. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">School Psychologist (Grades P-12) 65 hours: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have an undergraduate degree in psychology, educational psychology, education or a related field. This is an educational specialist degree program. </span><span class="generated-style">Contact: Dr. Merilee McCurdy at mmccurdy2@unl.edu or 402-472-5191. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">School Transition Specialist (Grades 7-12) 18 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Persons with this Special Services Counseling Endorsement may counsel and provide services for youth with disabilities and consult with teachers, parents, and students. There are three undergraduate courses that may be taken to prepare for this endorsement or which may qualify an undergraduate student for a provisional endorsement as a Transition Specialist, however the Transition Specialist endorsement cannot be completed at the undergraduate level; graduate level courses must be taken to complete the endorsement.</span><span class="generated-style"> Contact: Dr. Gary Meers at gmeers1@unl.edu or 402-472-2365.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Severe/Multiple Disabilities-Autism (Grades P-12) 23 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a valid initial teaching certificate in Special Education, Mild/Moderate Disabilities or equivalent. </span><span class="generated-style">Contact: Ellin Siegel at esiegel1@unl.edu or 402-472-9867.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Superintendent (Grades P-12) 66 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> This is a Professional Certificate. </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a standard teaching certificate, complete a specialist or doctoral program and have completed two years of teaching experience.</span><span class="generated-style"> Contact: Dr. Jody Isernhagen at jisernhagen3@unl.edu or 402-472-1088</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Supervisor of Special Education Programs (Grades P-12) 36 hours: </span><span class="generated-style">This is an Administrative Certificate and will appear as “Curriculum Supervisor P-12.” </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a standard teaching certificate in special education and two years of successful teaching experience. Candidates must apply to both the Department of Educational Administration and to the Department of Special Education and Communication Disorders and will have two advisers.</span><span class="generated-style"> Contact: Department of Educational Administration, Dr. Jody Isernhagen at jisernhagen3@unl.edu or 402-472-1088 and the Department of Special Education and Communication Disorders, Dr. Reece Peterson at rpeterson1@unl.edu or 402-472-5480.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Visual Impairment (Grades P-12) 33-39 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Must have a standard teaching certificate and be admitted into the Visually Impaired program. Persons with this endorsement may teach students with visual impairments from birth through age 21. Visual impairment includes blindness, low vision (legal blindness and partial sight) and vision loss associated with other impairments.</span><span class="generated-style"> Contact: Dr. Tessa Wright at twright5@unl.edu or 402-472-6636. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MINORS &amp; AREAS OF SPECIALIZATIONS OFFERED</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">CEHS International Minor</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Plan A Requirements – 18 hours</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Plan B Requirements – 12 hours</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Child, Youth and Family Studies Minor – 18 hours</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">CYAF 160, CYAF 280 (3 hrs each). Select four more 3 hr classes in the Department, two of which must be at the 300 level or above.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Coaching Minor – 15 hours</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This minor is not available for students seeking teacher certification; a supplemental endorsement in Coaching is available for students in teacher education.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">ATHT 235 (3 hrs); ATHC 279 and ATHC 494 (3 hrs each); select three from the following: ATHC 311, ATHC 312, ATHC 317, ATHC 318 (6 hrs).</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Contact: Dr Tom Wandzilak, twandzilak1@unl.edu, 402-472-8626.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Education Minor – 18 hours</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Completion of this minor does NOT meet the requirements for teacher certification. A grade of C or above is required in all courses; the P/N option is not permitted. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 331 or equivalent and TEAC 330 (3 hrs each); EDPS 250 or EDPS 251 and EDPS 362 or EDPS 457 (3 hrs each); SPED 201 (3 hrs); CYAF 380 or approved elective from CYAF, EDPS, NUTR, SPED, or TEAC (3 hrs). </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Contact: Your academic adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Hospitality, Restaurant and Tourism Management Minor – 18 hours</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This minor is only available for students in CASNR and CEHS. A grade of C or above is required in all courses; the P/N option is not permitted.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">HRTM 171, HRTM 285, HRTM 289 (3 hrs ea); select 9 hrs from the following: HRTM 280, HRTM 373, HRTM 374, HRTM 474, HRTM 478, HRTM 479, HRTM 485, HRTM 489 or NUTR 471 (3 hrs each). </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Contact: Your academic adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Supplemental Education Endorsements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To pursue a supplemental endorsement, students must either hold a valid teaching certificate or be pursuing a teacher education program. Please contact an academic adviser or the specified contact person for information regarding any of the following supplemental endorsements.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Coaching (Grades 7-12) 15 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> Persons with this endorsement may coach interscholastic athletic events for participants in grades 7 through 11. ATHT 235 (3 hrs); ATHC 279 and ATHC 494 (3 hrs each). Select three from the following: ATHC 311, ATHC 312, ATHC 317, ATHC 318 (6 hrs). Contact: Dr Tom Wandzilak, 116 Henzlik Hall, twandzilak1@unl.edu, 402-472-8626.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Cooperative Education–Diversified Occupations (Grades 9-12) 6-7 hours: </span><span class="generated-style">An endorsement in Business, Marketing and Information Technology or Industrial Technology is required. Persons with this endorsement may coordinate, teach and supervise programs of instruction that develop career and life skills. TEAC 425/825 or ALEC 234 3 hrs; SPED 434/834 or ALEC 424 3 hrs; 1,000 hours of approved work experience or TEAC 297 or ALEC 390 0-2 hrs. Contact your adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">English as a 2nd Language–Undergraduate (Grades K-12) 9-18 hours: </span><span class="generated-style">Persons with this endorsement may teach English as a second language in grades K through 12. There are three undergraduate courses that may be taken to prepare for this endorsement or which may qualify an undergraduate student for a provisional endorsement in ESL, however, the ESL endorsement cannot be completed at the undergraduate level; graduate level courses must be taken to complete the endorsement. TEAC 413A, 413K and 413M. Please see adviser and/or Joyce Richter at jrichter1@unl.edu or 402/ 472-8635 for list of graduate courses to complete the endorsement.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Information Technology (Grades K-12) 17 hours:</span><span class="generated-style"> Persons with this endorsement may teach information technology courses in grades K through 12.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Endorsement in business and marketing education required. TEAC 323, 444 and 451L 3 hrs each; 397L 1 hr; CSCE 101 and 150 3 hrs each; CSCE 101L 1 hr. Contact your CEHS adviser. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Skilled and Technical Science Education (Grades 9-12) 12-15 hours: </span><span class="generated-style">An endorsement in Agricultural Education or Industrial Technology Education is required. Candidate must also have or earn a Cooperative Education/DiversifiedOccupations endorsement. Persons with this endorsement may teach Skilled and Technical Science Education (formerly Trade and Industrial Education).</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The following courses are taken through the Community Colleges. Select a minimum of 12 hours from one of the following groups and have your selection approved by your CASNR adviser:</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">(1) ARCH 1160 4 hrs, ARCH 1150 1 hr; CNST 1100, 1200, 1300 3 hrs each.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">(2) MACH 1100, 1101, 1102 3 hrs ea; WELD 1080 4 hrs, WELD 1060 3 hrs, WELD 1070 2 hrs, WELD 1090 1 hr.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">(3) DRAF 1120, 1220 3 hrs each; ELEC 1110 3 hrs, ELEC 1129 5 hrs; ENGR 1010, 1100, 1140 3 hrs ea.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">(4) AUTT 1000, 1100 1 hr ea, AUTT 1103 2 hrs, AUTT 1003 3 hrs, AUTT 1106, 1221 4 hrs ea;</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Contact your CASNR adviser.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
