<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Engineering Main Page</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="engineering-main-page">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">College of Engineering</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Timothy Wei,</span><span class="generated-style"> Ph.D., Dean</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">David Jones,</span><span class="generated-style"> Ph.D., Associate Dean for Undergraduate Programs (Lincoln Campus)</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">John S. Thorp,</span><span class="generated-style"> M.S., Associate Dean for Undergraduate Programs (Omaha Campus)</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">About the College</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Role and Mission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Engineering enthusiastically embraces its unique role as the singular intellectual and cultural resource for engineering instruction, research, and outreach within the state. It provides the people of Nebraska with comprehensive engineering academic programs to fulfill their highest aspirations and ambitions.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The missions of the College of Engineering at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln are:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">to deliver relevant and challenging educational programs to attract an outstanding diverse student body, prepare graduates for rewarding careers in their chosen professions, and encourage graduates to extend their level of knowledge through lifelong learning;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">to conduct leading edge research advances engineering science, and stimulate the intellectual development and creativity of both students and faculty; and,</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">to extend exemplary engineering service and transfer knowledge that contributes to the well-being and betterment of society.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Administrative Structure</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Engineering is located on three campuses (Lincoln city campus, Lincoln East Campus, and Omaha), and has two Dean’s Offices, 114 Othmer Hall in Lincoln and 100 Peter Kiewit Institute in Omaha. The College is subdivided into units, each under the leadership of a chairperson, department head, or director.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">College Admission</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">College Entrance Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must have high school credit for (one unit is equal to one high school year):</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">1. 4 units of mathematics: 2 of algebra, 1 of geometry, 1 of precalculus and trigonometry.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">2. 4 units of English.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">3. 3 units of natural science that must include 1 unit of physics and 1 unit of chemistry (chemistry requirement waived for students in construction management).</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">4. 2 units of a single foreign language.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">5. 3 units of social studies.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">6. Students having a composite ACT score of 28 or greater (or equivalent SAT score) will be admitted to the College of Engineering even if they lack any one of the following: trigonometry, chemistry, or physics.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">7. Students having an ACT score of 19 or less in English (or equivalent SAT score) must take ENGL 150 or ENGL 151.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">A total of 16 units is required for admission.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must have an ACT (enhanced) score of 24 or greater (or equivalent SAT). Students who lack entrance requirements may be admitted based on ACT scores, high school rank and credits, or may be admitted to pre-engineering status in the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center. Pre-engineering students are advised within the College of Engineering. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who lack entrance units may complete precollege training by Independent Study through the UNL Office of On-line and Distance Education, in summer courses, or as a part of their first or second semester course loads while in the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center or other Colleges at UNL.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students should consult their adviser, their department chair, or the Office of the Dean if they have questions on current policies.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Other Admission Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who transfer from other colleges or universities must meet the freshman entrance requirements and have a minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.5 for Nebraska residents. Nonresidents must have a minimum cumulative grade point average of 3.0 unless they are transferring from an accredited engineering program, in which case a 2.5 grade point average is acceptable. Students who do not meet this requirement must enroll in another college at the University and achieve a minimum 2.5 cumulative grade point average in the first 12 hours or more of course work taken at UNL. They may then be considered for admission to the College of Engineering.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Engineering accepts courses for transfer for which a C grade or above was received. Grades of D from the University of Nebraska at Kearney, Lincoln, or Omaha may be transferred to fulfill requirements, however, students are strongly encouraged to repeat those courses. All transfer students must adopt the curricular requirements of the undergraduate bulletin current at the time of transfer–not that in use when they entered UNL.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADVISING</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Academic Advising</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Advisers assigned to students are located in the departments.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Responsibility</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Application for the Diploma</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must file an application of candidacy for the diploma at the Office of the University Registrar.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Failure to meet these stipulations may postpone graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Honors Program</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Honor Societies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">These recognize students who excel in scholarship and give promise of being leaders in professional areas. They are branches of national societies and are generally open upon invitation to juniors and seniors: Alpha Epsilon (agricultural engineering), Chi Epsilon (civil engineering, both campuses), Eta Kappa Nu (electrical engineering), Pi Tau Sigma (mechanical engineering), Sigma Lambda Chi (construction management), Sigma Xi (scientific, all colleges), Tau Alpha Pi (engineering technology, Omaha campus), and Tau Beta Pi (all engineering).</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Recognition</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Graduation with Distinction</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students with outstanding scholastic records may obtain the special honor of graduation </span><span class="basic-text-ital">With Distinction, With High Distinction</span><span class="generated-style">, or </span><span class="basic-text-ital">With Highest Distinction</span><span class="generated-style"> upon the recommendation of the faculty of the College. Check with your major department for specific requirements of each degree.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Standing/Classification</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">After being admitted, students wishing to pursue degree programs in the College of Engineering will be classified as described below.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="header-paragraph-title">1. Pre-Engineering and Pre-Construction Management Students. </span><span class="generated-style">New students are accepted on a provisional basis to establish their academic credentials and to firm up their career objectives. These students may take freshman- and sophomore-level courses in the College of Engineering.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style"> Readmitted students will be initially classified as pre-engineering, and pre-construction management students when their accumulative GPA for a total of at least 12 credit hours and most recent semester or term GPA at the University of Nebraska is at least 2.5. Students may be reclassified to restricted status if their accumulative GPA falls below 2.4.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="basic-text-bold">2. Regular Engineering Students.</span><span class="generated-style"> Students who have completed 43 credit hours applicable to their engineering degree may apply for formal admission to that degree program. Those exceeding 61 credit hours must receive formal admission to an engineering degree program if they are to continue to take engineering courses taught in the College of Engineering and/or be identified with the College. Transfer students must have at least 12 credit hours of course work from the University of Nebraska on record before an application will be considered.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style"> Students may apply to an engineering degree program during the first four weeks of the fall or spring semester, which must include a complete record of course work. Students may select a first and second choice of a degree program on a single application and may submit no more than two applications and only in successive semesters. Applications are judged on a competitive academic performance basis. The student should contact the department of his/her choice to determine if there are specific requirements. Admission of non-Nebraska residents may be limited to ten percent of the total.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style"> Regular engineering students may be re-classified to a restricted status if their accumulative GPA falls below 2.4. Students may not graduate with a degree in engineering while in the restricted category.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="basic-text-bold">3. Regular Construction Management Students.</span><span class="generated-style"> Pre-construction management students must apply and be admitted to the construction management degree program after completing 30 credit hours of required course work. Students failing to be admitted to the construction management degree program prior to earning 65 credit hours may be dropped as construction management degree candidates.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style"> Regular construction management students who fail to maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.4 may be reclassified as restricted students.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="basic-text-bold">4. Restricted Students.</span><span class="generated-style"> These students are ones who are in the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center or other colleges, or those who have failed to maintain the academic standards or general policies of the College of Engineering. Restricted students are substantially limited in the choice of courses that may be taken in the College. Restricted students may:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Retake D and F grades in College of Engineering courses on a space available basis with permission.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Repeat a maximum of three courses in the College any one of which may be taken only twice.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Enroll in CNST 112 and CNST 131.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Enroll in ENGM 220 and ENGM 324.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Enroll in AGEN 100, BSEN 100, BSEN 130, CIVE 112, IMSE 050, MECH 130 on a space available basis. Students admitted to the College of Engineering have priority in these two courses.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Not enroll in ELEC 121, or ELEC 122 without approval from the respective departments.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">General College Policies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">These policies are applicable to all students in the College of Engineering:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">1. Student priority for entrance into classes for which demand exceeds available class space will be based on accumulative GPA. This priority will be applied at the end of early registration (when applicable).</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">2. Students may repeat a maximum of three engineering courses. Students may take any one engineering course a maximum of two times.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">3. At least 30 of the last 36 credit hours needed for a degree must be registered for and completed at UNL or UNO while identified with the College of Engineering. This means that, practically speaking, the last year of a student’s work must be spent in residence. Credit earned during education abroad may be used toward degree requirements if students participate in prior approved programs and register through UNL (see http://educationabroad.unl.edu).</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">4. Pass/No Pass courses: Students in the College of Engineering must take ENGR 20, ENGR 30, and ENGR 400 with the grading option Pass/No Pass. In addition, students may take up to 12 credit hours of courses in the humanities and social sciences on a Pass/No Pass basis. Students in the College of Engineering may not take any other required courses or technical elective courses with the grading option of Pass/No Pass.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">5. Credits for “English for Foreign Students who are Non-native Speakers” at UNL and “English as a Second Language” at UNO are not applicable to degree programs in the College of Engineering.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">6. Six hours of English composition may be substituted for the written communications requirement in all degree programs.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">7. Students who enroll at UNL, UNO, or UNK under the academic year (Fall, Spring, Summer) of this bulletin must fulfill the requirements stated in this UNL bulletin or in any other UNL bulletin which is published while they are enrolled in the College, provided that the bulletin is no more than 10 years old at the time of graduation. A student must, however, meet the graduation requirements from one bulletin only. A student may not choose a portion from one bulletin and the remainder from another bulletin.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Undergraduate Seminars.</span><span class="generated-style"> Sophomore engineering students are required to attend ENGR 20, Sophomore Engineering Seminar, a zero credit course. The Sophomore Engineering Seminar provides information on career planning, interviewing, resumé preparation and coop/internship opportunities. Transfer engineering students, including STEP students, are required to attend ENGR 30 Transfer Student Engineering Seminar, a 0 credit course. The Transfer Student Engineering Seminar focuses on transfer issues, adapting to UNL and the College of Engineering, and career development.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Design Requirement.</span><span class="generated-style"> All engineering majors require a minimum of 48 credit hours of engineering topics (engineering topics include subjects in the engineering sciences or engineering design). Engineering design is the process of devising a system, component or process to meet desired needs. Engineering design work may be done by individuals; however, team efforts are encouraged where appropriate. Engineering majors are provided an integrated engineering design experience throughout the curriculum. In addition, all engineering programs include a meaningful major design experience that builds upon the fundamental concepts of mathematics, basic sciences, humanities, social sciences, engineering topics, and communication skills.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">BULLETIN TO USE</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must fulfill the requirements stated in the bulletin for the academic year in which they are first admitted at UNL. In consultation with advisers, a student may choose to follow a subsequent bulletin for any academic year in which they are admitted to and enrolled as a degree-seeking student at UNL in the College of Engineering. Students must complete all degree requirements from a single bulletin year. The bulletin which a student follows for degree requirements may not be more than 10 years old at the time of graduation. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Grade Appeals</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In the event of a dispute involving any college policies or grades, the student should appeal to his/her instructor, adviser, and department chair (in that order). If a satisfactory solution is not achieved, the student may appeal his/her case through the College Academic Appeals Committee on his/her campus.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DEGREES &amp; MAJORS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To meet the need for innovative engineers, the College’s programs offer broad education in the physical sciences, social sciences, mathematics, information sciences, and humanities. This education is complemented by study of engineering methods of modeling, analysis, synthesis, and design in students’ areas of specialization. In addition to preparing students for careers in engineering, the College’s bachelors degree programs provide excellent preparation for graduate study in those fields.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Construction Management</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This profession is allied with architecture, engineering, and business administration. Construction managers coordinate people, machines, and materials to produce (within the constraints of budget and time) buildings, highways, bridges, dams, and other structures essential to modern society. The College’s construction management program provides a solid technical background, develops business knowledge, and considers ethical issues of the profession.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Undergraduate Programs on the Lincoln Campus</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Engineering.</span><span class="generated-style"> The College offers bachelor of science degree programs in each of the following engineering fields: agricultural engineering, architectural engineering, biological systems engineering, chemical engineering, civil engineering, computer engineering, construction engineering, electrical engineering, electronics engineering, and mechanical engineering. Over 85 percent of all the engineering degrees granted in the United States during the last five years were granted in these fields. Students with interests in specialty fields such as aerospace, environmental, or biomedical engineering should seek advice in the Office of the Dean on how to incorporate such emphases into the above degree programs.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Construction Management.</span><span class="generated-style"> The College offers the bachelor of science degree program in construction management, a program accredited by The American Council for Construction Education. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Double Majors.</span><span class="generated-style"> Students can major in two departments in the college by consulting their advisers (one from each department) and completing all the requirements for the departmental majors.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">GRADUATE STUDENT INFORMATION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Courses supporting several engineering graduate programs are offered both on and off campus. For details, see the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Graduate Studies Bulletin and contact the appropriate department or the Office of the Dean of the College of Engineering.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Seniors in this University who have obtained prior approval of the Dean of Graduate Studies may receive up to 12 hours credit for graduate courses taken in addition to their required undergraduate work. However, these credits must be earned within the calendar year prior to receipt of the bachelors degree. For procedures, inquire at the UNL Graduate Studies Office. Graduate credits earned prior to receipt of the bachelors degree may not always be accepted for transfer to other institutions as graduate work.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MINORS &amp; AREAS OF SPECIALIZATIONS OFFERED</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Approved Minors for College of Engineering Students</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Policies:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">1. A minor will not reduce or alter the existing course or degree requirements for students electing to pursue a minor.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">2. A student’s minor program(s) must be organized and approved by an adviser prior to the submission of the senior check to the department chair or head.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">3. The minor(s) must be approved by the adviser, the department chair or head, the Dean and the cognizant program offering the minor(s).</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">4. The College of Engineering will follow the “A/B” format of the Arts and Sciences College in which a student pursuing a single minor must complete the “A” requirements. A student pursuing a double (or greater) minor must fulfill either the “A” or “B” requirements for both minors depending on which plan is offered by the cognizant department.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">5. Minors on the Lincoln or Omaha campuses may be added to the following list on approval of the College of Engineering Curriculum Committee and faculty.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Approved Minors</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">If not otherwise listed here, refer to the individual college sections for requirements on the following minors.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Agricultural Economics</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Agriculture and Natural Resources</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Agronomy</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Animal Science</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Art History</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Biochemistry</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Biological Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Biomedical Engineering Minor</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Required Core Courses 24</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 102 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 212 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 317 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Electives 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">(6 hrs in courses outside your major)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Tracks:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Tissue-Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">CHME 473, BSEN 416, BSEN 418, ELEC 498b 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Biomechanics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">MECH 436, MECH 437, MECH 498b 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 415, IMSE 498 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 416 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Medical Imaging and Signal Processing</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 311 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">BSEN 414, BSEN 496 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 304, ELEC 463, ELEC 498a 3</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Business Minor for Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management (Plan A only) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">The minor detailed below is applicable only to students participating in the Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management. All courses must be taken for a letter grade.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Required Foundation Courses 16-17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106, MATH 107 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> MATH 208 4-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">STAT 218 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> STAT 380 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> IMSE 321 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">RAIK 181H 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">RAIK 182H 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">RAIK 281H 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Required Business Core Courses 12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 341 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">RAIK 282H 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">RAIK 381H 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">RAIK 382H 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total hours for the RAIK/BSAD minor 28-29</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Communication Studies</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Engineering students may not use internship credit to satisfy this minor.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Computational Biology and Bioinformatics</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Computer Science</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Refer to the College of Arts and Sciences for the computer science minor.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Construction Management (Plan A only)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">All courses must be taken for a letter grade.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Required Courses 27</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BLAW 372 Business Law I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 112 Construction Communications 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 241 Construction Equipment &amp; Methods I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 305 Physical Environmental Systems I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 378 Construction Estimating I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 379 Construction Estimating II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 480 Productivity &amp; Human Factors 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 485 Construction Project Scheduling &amp; Control 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 360 Managing Behavior in Organizations 3</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Economics</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Energy Science</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For information about the energy science minor, please contact Professor Adam Liska, 402-472-8744, aliska2@unl.edu..</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Engineering Mechanics (Plan A only)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">12 credit hours beyond the regular undergraduate engineering mechanics sequence (ENGM 223, ENGM 325, ENGM 373 or ENGM 250, ENGM 350). These may be chosen from 300- and 400-level courses offered by engineering mechanics, excluding those courses required in the student’s curriculum by the major department.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">English</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Ethnic Studies</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">European Studies</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">General Business (Plan A only) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">All courses must be taken for a letter grade.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Required Courses 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 200 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 200 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">FINA 300 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 300 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 300 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BLAW 300 3</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Geography</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Geology</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Global Studies</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">History</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">International Agriculture and Natural Resources</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">International Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This minor is designed to encourage and give recognition to undergraduate students who enhance their engineering education with courses and experiences consistent with the global nature of engineering and the economy. This minor has four components:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">1. Twelve (12) credit hours of courses in international engineering and related courses.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style"> The courses must be chosen from the list of courses maintained by the associate dean of Academic Affairs and the College’s Office of International Programs. The course list includes all sections of ENGR 490 and MODL 98 and the list of courses included in Appendix 1. In addition,</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">a. A minimum of 3 credit hours must be in ENGR 490 courses.</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">b. A minimum of 6 credit hours must be in 300-level courses or above.</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">c. A maximum of 6 credit hours may be taken Pass/No Pass.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">2. Two (2) semesters with a minimum of 6 credit hours of college-level foreign language.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style"> The actual number of credit hours taken will depend on the specific courses taken by the student.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">3. Participation in a education abroad experience in a program approved by the associate dean of Academic Affairs and the College’s Office of International Programs.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">4. A minimum of 9 credit hours of the course work listed for this minor cannot count toward the undergraduate engineering degree or the master of architectural engineering degree.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Japanese</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics and Statistics (Plan A only)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">12 credit hours beyond the calculus sequence (MATH 106-MATH 107-MATH 208, or MATH 106H-MATH 208H) and differential equations (MATH 221 or MATH 221H). These courses may be chosen from the 300- or 400-level course offered by mathematics and statistics except MATH 350, MATH 450 and MATH 460.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Meteorology-Climatology</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Modern Languages (Only for engineering students)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="basic-text-bold">Czech:</span><span class="generated-style"> There is no Plan A minor. Plan B–6 hours at the 300 level.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="basic-text-bold">French, German and Russian: </span><span class="generated-style">Plan A–12 hours at the 203 level and above, including 6 hours at the 300 level. Plan B–9 hours at the 203 level and above, including 3 hours at the 300 level.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="basic-text-bold">Japanese:</span><span class="generated-style"> Plan A–12 hours at the 203 level and above, including 6 hours at the 300 level. Plan B–6 hours at the 203 level and above, including 204.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="basic-text-bold">Spanish:</span><span class="generated-style"> Plan A–12 hours numbered at 303 or above. Plan B–6 hours from 303 or above.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Music</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Philosophy </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Physics</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Political Science</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Psychology</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Sociology</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Water Science</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Women’s and Gender Studies</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Professional Licensure</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College encourages professional licensure. The majority of the College’s engineering seniors take the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination prior to graduation. This examination is administered by the Nebraska Board of Engineers and Architects, a state agency, and the first step in the process of becoming a licensed professional engineer. To become a licensed professional engineer, one must pass the FE exam, have four years of experience, and pass a professional practice examination. Students may take the FE exam in the last semester of their baccalaureate program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Accreditation</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The agricultural engineering, biological systems engineering, chemical engineering, civil engineering (Lincoln and Omaha campuses), computer engineering (Lincoln and Omaha campus), electrical engineering, electronics engineering, and mechanical engineering programs are accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), http://www.abet.org.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The master of architectural engineering is also accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), http://www.abet.org. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The construction management program is accredited by the American Council for Construction Education.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Scholarships and Financial Aid</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each year the College awards scholarships to freshmen and upperclassmen worth more than $750,000. Scholarship awards are made possible through generous gifts of alumni and friends, local and national organizations, and through funding by the Nebraska Legislature. Contact the Office of the Dean or the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid for information regarding these awards and for other financial assistance.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Application for UNL freshmen scholarships automatically makes you eligible for College of Engineering scholarships as well as other university awards such as the Regents and David scholarships. You must submit the UNL Application form (due January 15, prior to the beginning of the next academic year) to be eligible.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A significant number of entering students have academic records that qualify them for university-wide scholarship awards. Each year about 25 percent of the freshman Regent Scholarship recipients are engineering students.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A large number of students are able to find part-time employment in fields related to their interests.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Organizations in the College</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Technical Societies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The technical student societies help develop a greater personal and professional interest and understanding in engineering, computer science and construction management. Student branches of the major national technical and scientific societies are sponsored by the academic programs and departments.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Lincoln Campus.</span><span class="generated-style"> American Institute of Chemical Engineers; The Society for Engineering in Agricultural, Food, and Biological Systems; American Society of Civil Engineers; American Society of Mechanical Engineers; Associated General Contractors; Association for Computer Machinery; Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers; American Society for Metals; Student Advisory Board; Institute of Transportation Engineers; National Society of Black Engineers; Society of American Military Engineers; Society of Women Engineers; and Society of Automotive Engineers.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Lifelong Learning</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The education of professionals in construction management, engineering, and engineering technology is a continuing process. The groundwork in both technical and nontechnical studies is laid while in college, but education continues after graduation. For a professional, education continues in the technical and in the human and social concerns areas, and may expect to take a leadership role in the community, have a broad awareness of human and social accomplishments, needs, values, and a willingness to take the responsibility for meeting these needs. For these reasons, an integrated program of course work in the humanities and social sciences is a part of the educational requirements.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
