<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Div of General Studies Main Page</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="div-of-general-studies-main-page">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">http://www.explorecenter.unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center provides an academic home for students who have not decided upon a major. The Center also provides advising for students interested in Pre-Professional (pre-health and pre-law) programs. The Center does not award degrees. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Undecided students who choose to begin their academic careers in the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center may have a variety of career interests and need time to make a decision regarding which college and major are most appropriate for them. Others have narrowed their choices to two or three options but want to explore these choices in greater depth before they make a firm commitment. Still other students have no idea what they want to major in or what career opportunities are available to them. A fourth category is the student who has chosen a field of study (e.g., engineering or architecture) but needs preparatory work in order to meet the admission requirements of that program. All of these students will find the assistance they need in the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Pre-professional areas of study are not majors at UNL but rather advising categories. Some students declare an academic major while working toward their professional school requirements and earn a degree from UNL before entering professional school. Some professional programs allow students to enter after completing school requirements without earning an undergraduate degree. Students pursuing these categories while earning degrees from any undergraduate college at UNL can receive guidance and advice from advisers in the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Since General Studies does not offer a degree program, most students are encouraged to transfer to one of the eight undergraduate colleges by the end of their freshman year. Some will transfer before that time while others may remain in General Studies longer if they have not met all of the admission requirements for their chosen college, such as a specific grade point average (GPA). Once they have chosen a college, it is in the best interest of students to transfer out of General Studies into that college without delay as it is important for them to make connections with faculty and staff in their academic program.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Program Admission </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who have met the overall University admission requirements established by the Board of Regents are eligible for admission to the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center. The University admission requirements are outlined in detail on the Admissions site at http://admissions.unl.edu/.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Some UNL colleges have admission requirements in addition to the overall University admission requirements, and undecided students will be advised accordingly as they choose the majors they would like to pursue in their chosen colleges.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students desiring to transfer from other institutions and enroll as an undecided student in the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center at UNL must have a cumulative grade point average of C (2.0 GPA on a 4.0 scale) or above. Students who do not meet this requirement may appeal their admission status to the Director of Admissions. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Because admission requirements establish the level of knowledge and skills which are needed for a student to succeed at UNL, students who are admitted with core course deficiencies in foreign language and geometry are expected to quickly remove them. Deficiencies must be removed before a student is eligible for graduation. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Undecided students in the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center who lack one or more of the high school units required for admission to any of the eight undergraduate colleges will be advised of the procedure for removing the deficiency by their adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADVISING</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Professional advisers in the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center are available on an appointment and/or walk-in basis Monday through Friday. Undecided students are assigned an academic adviser and may view their adviser assignment in MyRED through the Student Center. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Undecided Students</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">One of the strengths of the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center is its unique position with regard to academic advising. Each undecided students is assigned a professional academic adviser, and while students are choosing their major, advisers assist students with course selection and degree planning. Advisers also help students identify UNL majors that match their interests. By working closely with all of the UNL colleges, the adviser can help students design a general academic plan for one or more semesters that will allow them to progress toward a degree, while also exploring the variety of opportunities offered by the University. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Since the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center does not offer a degree program, students are encouraged to transfer to one of the eight undergraduate colleges by the end of their freshman year. Some will transfer before that time while others may remain longer if they have not met all of the admission requirements for their chosen college, such as a specific grade point average (GPA). Once they have chosen a college, it is in the best interest of students to transfer out of Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising into that college without delay as it is important for them to make connections with faculty and staff in their academic program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Professional Students</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Professional advisers are available in the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center to help students work toward a career in health care and law professions. Pre-professional advising includes career exploration, course planning, entrance exam preparation, extracurricular activity and involvement, and application consultation. Students majoring in any college at UNL are advised in their pre-professional areas through the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center. Advisers specialize in advising these areas: pre-chiropractic, pre-clinical lab science, pre-clinical perfusion, pre-cytotechnology, pre-dental hygiene, pre-dentistry, pre-law, pre-medicine, pre-mortuary science, pre-nursing, pre-occupational therapy, pre-optometry, pre-pharmacy, pre-physical therapy, pre-physician assistant, and pre-radiation science technology. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ACE REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All University of Nebraska students are required to complete general education courses. Students new to UNL must complete the Achievement-Centered Education requirements (ACE). See the website, http://ace.unl.edu, for details. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">During their first year at UNL, students should also enroll in exploratory courses to help them identify majors of interest. Please refer to the Division of General Studies website, http://www.unl.edu/dgs), for an up-to-date list of exploratory courses (listed by major). </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students should keep in mind that, in general, 100-level courses are for freshmen, 200-level courses for sophomores, 300-level courses for juniors, and 400-level courses for seniors.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Undecided First Year Student Guide</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style"> Semester 1</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE 1</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE 3 OR 4</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE 6</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE 9 OR 7</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Exploratory Course (Interest Area)</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Semester 1 – Keep on Track Activities</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Find your interest – Do the Career Cruising Activity: http://www.careercruising.com. Contact Career Services (402-472-3145) to obtain the login information.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Find UNL majors that match interests – Do the Power of Possibilities Activity: http://possibilities.unl.edu/</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Research UNL majors and courses – Use the Bulletin: http://bulletin.unl.edu/undergraduate/</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Meet often with your academic adviser for academic planning</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Semester 2</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE 2</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE 3 or 4</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE 5 or 8</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACE 7 or 9</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Exploratory Course (Interest Area)</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Semester 2 – Keep on Track Activities</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Test drive a career – Do a shadow experience in the Guided Professional Shadowing Program</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Research majors – Talk to faculty, advisers and students</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Meet with a career counselor – NU Union Room 230 (472-3145)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Declare a major – Start declaration process in the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Tips</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ACE courses can also be exploratory courses.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Researching majors and exploring options in the first year is important for deciding students.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Academic Load</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Undecided students may enroll in a maximum of 18 credits in the fall and spring semesters. Students should refer to the Summer Schedule of Classes to determine the number of credits they may enroll in for each of the summer sessions. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Undecided students should always seek assistance from their adviser in determining whether they should take a course on the Pass/No Pass option. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Recognition</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Dean’s List/Degrees with Distinction/Scholarships</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who complete at least 12 graded semester hours with a 3.60 GPA are eligible for the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center Honor Roll. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Credit Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center does not offer a degree. Thus advisers do not make transfer evaluation decisions. Undecided students transferring into the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center from outside the University of Nebraska system will need to present a transcript for admission. Courses on the transcript may be viewed as meeting the overall University requirements for admission, but the determination of which of these courses will meet graduation requirements in a specific college cannot be made until the student declares a specific major within one of the eight undergraduate degree-granting colleges. An Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center adviser can provide a preliminary assessment of which specific courses may be accepted by each of the colleges. This assessment is done in cooperation with the colleges and is subject to their approval upon admission to their program.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
