<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Journalism &amp; Mass Communications Main Page</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="journalism-mass-communications-main-page">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">College of Journalism &amp; Mass Communications</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">About the College</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Gary Kebbel, </span><span class="generated-style">M.A., M.S.W., M.A., Dean and Professor of Journalism, 402-472-3041</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Charlyne Berens,</span><span class="generated-style"> Ph.D., Associate Dean and Professor of Journalism, 402-472-3041</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Mission/Objectives/Goals</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Our mission is to graduate highly competent professionals who have acquired communication and critical thinking skills appropriate to journalism and to advertising and public relations. We hold true to the core principles of journalism and mass communication education and as leaders of the digital communications environment. Our mission is grounded in the First Amendment of the United States Constitution, which gives us a unique responsibility to serve the needs of a diverse society. Through excellence in teaching and research, we educate ethical, socially responsible, well-rounded and fair-minded graduates who will carry those traits into the real world.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Undergraduate Majors</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Advertising and Public Relations </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Broadcasting </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Journalism </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Faculty</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Quality undergraduate teaching is a source of pride in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications. Most classes are small, and faculty members are known for the individual attention they give to their students. Faculty have a wealth of experience in the communications professions: as advertising and public relations managers, writers and designers for advertising and public relations agencies, newspapers and broadcasting outlets; as writers, producers and on-air talent for radio and television; and as reporters, editors and photographers at newspapers and magazines.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">College Admission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The entrance requirements for the College of Journalism and Mass Communications are the same as the admission requirements for the University of Nebraska–Lincoln.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">These include: </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">English (4 units)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics (4 units)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Social studies (3 units)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural sciences (3 units), and</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Foreign language (2 units). </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">One unit equals one year of high school credit. Students with one deficiency, two deficiencies but not in the same category, or two deficiencies in foreign language who receive a Deferred Admission or Admission by Review, may be considered for admission to the college. Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL. These conditions are explained under Admission to the University, Removal of Deficiencies. High school deficiencies must be removed during the first 30 credit hours of enrollment at UNL (60 hours for foreign language) or the first calendar year, whichever takes longer.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">You must remove entrance deficiencies in geometry and foreign language before you can graduate from the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Removing Foreign Language Deficiencies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student will need to complete the second semester of the first year language sequence to clear the deficiency and the second semester of the second year language sequence to complete the college graduation requirement in language.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Removing Geometry Deficiencies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A deficiency of one year of geometry can be removed by taking two high school geometry courses by Independent Study or by completing a geometry course from an accredited community college or a four-year institution. Neither of these options count for college credit.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Admission GPA</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Any student transferring into the college must have at least a 2.0 GPA. A student with 12 or more hours of college credit must have at least a 2.0 GPA to be admitted or readmitted to the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Readmission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student who left the University not in good standing (below a 2.0 grade point average) may be readmitted in the Division of General Studies. Such a student would be eligible to reenter the College of Journalism and Mass Communications upon attaining a 2.0 cumulative GPA. This student would follow the bulletin in effect at the time of the transfer from General Studies to the college.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">Other Admission Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Students from Other Colleges </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">College of Journalism and Mass Communications courses will be restricted to College of Journalism and Mass Communications majors except where stipulated differently. Students from colleges and departments with a written agreement with the College of Journalism and Mass Communications will be exempt from this policy. Permission may be granted by the dean of the College of Journalism and Mass Communications in special circumstances following the directives provided by the faculty in these matters.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">ESL Students</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Applicants who speak English as a second language must present a TOEFL score of 600 or higher. Additionally, broadcasting majors must present a score of at least 45 on the Test of Spoken English.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADVISING</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Academic Advising</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Upon enrollment in the college, each student is assigned to a faculty adviser. The student is expected to consult with his or her adviser each semester before registering for the next semester’s courses.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Although the faculty advisers seek to assist students in the selection of courses leading toward graduation, the final decision regarding which courses are taken is ultimately the student’s. Therefore, students are responsible for identifying and enrolling in those courses that will lead to completion of all published degree requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition, each first-year student and each senior should see the college’s advising coordinator, 105 Andersen Hall, to make sure all college and university requirements are completed.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Exclusions &amp; Restrictions</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Course Exclusions</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Courses from the following areas will not count toward the bachelor of journalism degree.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">athletic coaching (ATHC)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">athletic training (ATHT)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">health education (NUTR), first aid or emergency healthcare</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">agricultural leadership, education and communication (ALEC) </span><span class="list-ital">(except ALEC 102, ALEC 207, and ALEC 417)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">vocational and adult education courses, business education courses student assistantships, teaching assistantships, proctoring, or grading internships of a journalistic nature taken through any university unit or department</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">any independent study course, clinical course, experiential course or practicum outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications undertaken without the prior written approval of the student’s adviser</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">driver training education</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">industrial arts </span><span class="list-ital">(including courses concerned primarily with manual skills, tools, machines, or industrial processes and design)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">orientation courses, such as UNL’s ALEC 397E and ALEC 397K </span><span class="list-ital">(neither course is applicable to the courses numbered above 299 requirement)</span><span class="generated-style">; ASCI 107; BIOC 101; BIOS 150, 160; EDPS 150; FDST 107; HRFS 183; NRES 101, NUTR 150; PSYC 100, PSYC 150; TEAC 210; VBMS 101</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">math courses below 100 and MATH 100A</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">course on word processing and graphics</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">EDPS 327 </span><span class="list-ital">(except EDPS 189H, EDPS 250, EDPS 251, EDPS 362, EDPS 457, and EDPS 459)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">BSAD 150 or CSCE 137 or AGRI 271</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Course Restrictions</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Credit toward the degree may be earned in only one course, including honors sections, from each group of courses listed below:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 312 or AGRO 360</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 313 or BIOS 314</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 105, CHEM 109, CHEM 111, CHEM 113, CHEM 195</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 116 or CHEM 221</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 251 and more than 1 cr of CHEM 263</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 471 or CHEM 481</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 252D or CSCE 155N</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 252D or ENGM 112</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 252D or ELEC 121</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 340 or CSCE 480</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 210, or ECON 211 and ECON 212 </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 215, CRIM 300, EDPS 459 or STAT 218</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FREN 201 and FREN 202, or FREN 210</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">GEOL 100 or GEOL 101 or GEOL 101H</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">GEOL 103 or GEOL 105</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">GERM 201 and GERM 202, or GERM 210</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">LATN 102 or LATN 201</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 101 and/or MATH 102 or MATH 103</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 104 or MATH 106</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 200 or MATH 300</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 201 or MATH 301</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 340 or ENGM 480</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 141 or PHYS 151</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 151 or MSYM 109</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 205 or CRIM 251</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 209 or CRIM 355</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 311 or CRIM 337</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 474 or CRIM 413</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">SPAN 201 and SPAN 202, or SPAN 210</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Credit Rules</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Credit by Examination</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Through study or experience that parallels a University of Nebraska-Lincoln course, a regularly enrolled university student may feel prepared to pass an examination on the course content for course credit. To apply for credit, a student should: </span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Pick up a credit-by-examination form at the Information Window, Office of Registration and Records, 107 Canfield Administration Building; </span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Secure the approval signature of the dean of the college; </span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Have the Credentials Office verify that he or she is currently enrolled; </span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Secure the Bursar’s Receipt for Payment of the examination fee; and </span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Present the completed form to the instructor designated by the dean’s office.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The instructor will then give the examination and report the results to the Office of Registration and Records through the dean of the college. A student is not permitted to receive credit by examination in a course that is a prerequisite for one in which he or she already has received credit.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Journalism and Mass Communications also gives credit for the subject and general examinations of the College Level Examination Program (CLEP) administered by the College Entrance Examination Board. Inquire in 107 Canfield Administration Building for the current policy regarding CLEP examinations.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Appeals</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The following is a synopsis of the College of Journalism and Mass Communications grade appeals policy. The policy is designed to provide students with protection through orderly procedures against prejudiced or capricious academic evaluation. A student with a concern about a grade should take the following steps:</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">1. Talk with the instructor involved. Many problems are resolved at this level.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">2. Talk with an assistant or associate dean in 147 Andersen Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">3. If the foregoing steps have not resulted in a solution, arrange to take the problem to the sequence grading appeals committee. This step involves presenting the problem in writing.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">4. If an appeal from the sequence committee is necessary, arrange to take the appeal to the College Grading Appeals Committee.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Recognition</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Honors and Awards</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Outstanding students are honored each spring during an honors convocation. The college recognizes students whose cumulative grade point averages place them in the top 10 percent of their respective classes, students who hold scholarships and students who have earned special awards.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition, the college distributes a semester dean’s list. To be included on the semester dean’s list, a student must have earned at least a 3.7 semester GPA on 12 or more graded hours.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Kappa Tau Alpha.</span><span class="generated-style"> The Will Owen Jones Chapter of Kappa Tau Alpha, the national journalism honorary, recognizes outstanding undergraduate and graduate students. Membership is limited to those in the top 10 percent of the junior and senior classes in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications who have completed the junior level professional courses. Each year the society honors a student achieving the highest four-year grade point average in the college and presents an award to the Distinguished Journalist of the Year.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Alpha Delta Sigma.</span><span class="generated-style"> As the only national honorary society for advertising students, ADS recognizes outstanding academic achievement. Since ADS was initiated in 1976, students nominated by their faculty advisers have been elected by division leaders into this exclusive scholastic group. An ADS chapter was founded at UNL in 1993. To be eligible for nomination, students must be enrolled in the local American Advertising Federation chapter (Ad Club).</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Alpha Epsilon Rho.</span><span class="generated-style"> Alpha Epsilon Rho recognizes superior scholarship in the field of broadcasting. The University of Nebraska chapter was chartered in 1946. Membership is by invitation upon completion of 9 hours in broadcasting with a cumulative grade of 3.25 in broadcasting and 3.0 cumulative or above. For more information, contact the college office in 147 Andersen Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Degrees With Distinction</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In recognition of academic excellence, the college recommends the bachelors degree with distinction, with high distinction and with highest distinction. To be recommended, candidates must fulfill the specific criteria as described below, in addition to meeting all the general criteria and procedures applicable to all distinction classifications. The thesis and results of the examination over the thesis in each instance must be acceptable to the advisory committee.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Highest Distinction.</span><span class="generated-style"> Candidates for the bachelors degree may be recommended for degrees with highest distinction on the basis of the following criteria: scholastic standing within the top 5 percent of the graduating class of the college in the preceding 12-month period and the advisory committee’s recommendation based upon a thesis or comparable creative effort and an oral examination over that thesis or creative effort.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">High Distinction.</span><span class="generated-style"> Candidates for the bachelors degree may be recommended for degrees with high distinction by fulfilling one of two sets of criteria: 1) by achieving scholastic standing within the top 5 percent of the graduating class of the college in the preceding 12-month period; or 2) by achieving scholastic standing within the top 10 percent of the graduating class of the college in the preceding 12-month period and by recommendation of the advisory committee based on a thesis or comparable creative effort and an oral examination over that thesis or creative effort.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Distinction.</span><span class="generated-style"> Candidates for the bachelors degree may be recommended for degrees with distinction by achieving one of two sets of criteria: 1) by achieving scholastic standing within the top 10 percent of the graduating class of the college in the preceding 12-month period; or 2) by achieving scholastic standing within the top 15 percent of the graduating class (never below a 3.7 GPA) of the college for the preceding 12-month period and by recommendation of the college’s advisory committee based upon a thesis or comparable creative effort and an oral examination over that thesis or creative effort.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The following criteria apply to all categories:</span><span class="generated-style"> Ordinarily, only students who have taken their last 48 hours of course work in residence will be considered for degrees with distinction. In considering individual cases, the advisory committee will review both grades and the program of courses. Students who choose one of the thesis options described above should make arrangements before their senior year by consulting with their academic advisers. These students must register for ADPR 499H or JOUR 499H for one hour of credit in the semester they plan to complete the thesis proposal and register for an additional two hours of credit in the semester they plan to complete the thesis. At least two members of the student’s honors thesis committee must make a recommendation to the advisory committee on the thesis work.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">During the semester before the student intends to graduate, she or he should visit the dean’s office in Andersen Hall to obtain the schedule of deadline dates for submission of reports of examining committees. The forms for making the reports are also available in the dean’s office.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Scholarships</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each year the college awards more than 100 scholarships worth more than $178,000. Most scholarships go to upperclassmen, although a limited number are awarded to freshmen.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">College scholarship information is available on-line at the college’s Web site, www.unl.edu/journalism/students/undergrad/scholarships.shtml. The forms must be completed and returned to the dean’s office by March 1. Awards are made in April.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Entering freshmen must apply through the university’s Admissions Office in the Van Brunt Visitor Center, 313 N. 13th Street. Additional applications and letters of explanation may be sent to the college at the following address:</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">College of Journalism and Mass Communications</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">University of Nebraska–Lincoln</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Scholarship Committee</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">147 Andersen Hall</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">PO Box 880443</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Lincoln, NE 68588-0443</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Senior Check/Degree Audit</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">It is no longer necessary to request a “senior check.” Graduation Services, 109 Canfield Administration Building, automatically mails a letter and degree audit to each senior to identify any unfulfilled requirements in the student’s academic program.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">With each term’s registration, students should determine how course selections apply to requirements by obtaining a degree audit, available at the MyRED link on http://www.unl.edu.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students should print their degree audits and take them to the meetings with their advisers. Because the Web-based degree audit system loads overnight, one can examine a new audit no sooner than one day after registering for classes.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Application for Degree</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each student who expects to receive a diploma must file an application for candidacy for the diploma and pay a $25 fee to Graduation Services, 109 Canfield Administration Building. Announcements about deadline dates are published and posted on bulletin boards around campus.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are responsible for informing Graduation Services of their graduation plans, including their addresses, the manner in which they are completing their requirements, such as by correspondence, by clearance of incompletes, by enrollment at another institution, by taking special examinations, etc., and of any later revision of such plans. Failure to follow this procedure may cause postponement of graduation until a later semester.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The first semester during which the transcript indicates a student is a journalism major establishes the semester in which he or she is considered to have entered the college.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Standing/Classification</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Sophomore Standing.</span><span class="generated-style"> For admission to sophomore standing a student must have completed a minimum of 27 semester hours of credit and attained a total grade point average of at least C.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Junior Standing.</span><span class="generated-style"> A student has junior standing after meeting the requirements for sophomore standing and completing 53 semester hours of credit.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Senior Standing.</span><span class="generated-style"> A student has senior standing after meeting the requirements for junior standing and completing 89 semester hours of credit.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Waivers/Substitutions</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The college will allow no waivers for graduation requirements. If students think they have met the intent of a particular requirement in some other fashion, they may submit a substitution request form.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The form requires students to justify the request and secure recommendations from their advisers. Students must submit completed requests, with appropriate recommendations, to the dean’s office no later than two working days prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the College Executive Committee. Decisions to grant or deny requests will be made by that committee or a designated subcommittee; appeals will go to the full faculty.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must remember that it is their responsibility to know and follow the graduation requirements of the college. A substitution request should come only after all other avenues of advising and course work have been exhausted.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The faculty will consider only substitutions. Under no circumstances will requirements be waived. A substitution shall be defined as:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. The replacement of a required course by a course of very similar content.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Credit by examination when offered.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. The replacement of a required course with significant professional experience. This will be allowed only in rare instances. The experience will substitute only for course content, not for credit hours. Additional credit hours may be needed to maintain minimum credit hour requirements for graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">ACE REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All students must fulfill the Achievement Centered Education (ACE) requirements. Information about the ACE program may be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">BULLETIN TO USE</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who left the university in good standing may be readmitted in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications, and they may choose the bulletin under which they wish to graduate according to the following guidelines:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Students must fulfill the requirements stated in the Undergraduate Bulletin for the year they enter the College of Journalism and Mass Communications or in any subsequent bulletin published while they are enrolled in the college.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. A student must, however, meet the requirements from one bulletin only rather than choosing a portion from one bulletin and the remainder from another.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. No returning student may use a bulletin that is 10 years old or older. In addition, any student seeking graduation credit for a College of Journalism and Mass Communications course taken more than 10 years prior to graduation must demonstrate mastery of the material currently included in that course at the proficiency level satisfactory to the college’s advisory committee and one or more faculty members qualified to teach the course in question. Students unable to demonstrate satisfactory mastery of the course material will be required to repeat the original course or a corresponding contemporary course designated by the college’s advisory committee, if the original course is no longer offered.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">College General Education Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To graduate with a bachelor of journalism degree, students must complete requirements from the following areas: </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">the University ACE requirements</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">the requirements for a major offered by the college </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">the non-major requirements that are specific to the college</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">College Non-Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College non-major requirements (NMR) are designed to further the purposes of liberal education by encouraging study in several different areas. Courses satisfying these requirements may impart specialized knowledge or broadly connect the subject matter to other areas of knowledge. </span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">Group 1—The college requires a second set of ACE 1-9 courses beyond the ACE courses required by UNL, which must include a lab related to an ACE 4 course. This set of courses is identified as Group 1.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">Group 2—Candidates for the bachelor of journalism degree must abide by the Accrediting Council on Education in Journalism and Mass Communication accrediting guidelines, which require 65 semester hours be completed outside the college in subjects approved by UNL as Liberal Education/Liberal Arts courses and traditional liberal arts and sciences courses. These 65 hours of Liberal Education/Liberal Arts courses are identified as Group 2. All ACE courses from outside the college and all traditional liberal arts courses (departments identified in the degree audit) will apply to Group 2. The University of Nebraska–Lincoln considers liberal arts to include any courses that meet the outcomes identified by the Achievement Centered Education (ACE) for ACE 1 through 9 as follows: </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Develop intellectual and practical skills, including proficiency in written, oral, and visual communication; inquiry techniques; critical and creative thinking; quantitative applications; information assessment; teamwork; and problem-solving.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">Group 3—The Accrediting Council on Education in Journalism and Mass Communication further requires that students complete a total of 80 semester hours in courses outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications. The 65 hours of Liberal Education/Liberal Arts courses (Group 2) apply to the 80 hours outside the college (Group 3). </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Students graduating with 120 hours can take a maximum of 40 hours in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications. Students may take additional hours in the college, but those hours will be in addition to the 120 hours required to graduate. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specializations</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">Group 4—Students also must choose 36 hours of course work from outside the college that will produce specializations in the form of three 12-hour minors or concentrations or two 18-hour minors; or a second major with one 12-hour concentration; or a 24-hour concentration with a 12-hour concentration. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Normally, concentrations are defined as 12 or 24 hours taken from one department outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications or from a specified interdisciplinary program that does not have a designated minor. The college additionally recognizes a hybrid concentration of 24 hours in fine performing arts concentration, which follows this section.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In any concentration, at least 6 hours must include courses numbered 200 or higher. A specified minor may take the place of one 12-hour concentration. A major of 24 or more hours may take the place of a 24-hour concentration. At least one of these options must be from one of the liberal arts departments, and all of these options must be from outside the College of Journalism and Mass Communications. See the degree audit for a list of the traditional liberal arts departments. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College recognizes cross-listed courses as equivalent for the purposes of degree requirements. However, a course taken under one department that is cross-listed cannot be applied to more than one major, minor or concentration until at least 36 hours of course work have been recorded in Group 4. Once 36 unique hours are applied to Group 4, a course may count in more than one major, minor or concentration.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Fine and Performing Arts Concentration</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications may complete a 24-hour interdisciplinary concentration in courses from the College of Fine and Performing Arts. This concentration would include classes in: 1) art and art history; 2) music; 3) theater and film; and 4) dance.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">Students would select courses from the following:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">A. One 3-hour course from each of the four areas (12 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">B. 3 hours of skills courses (performance or lessons) in one of the four areas (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">C. One 3-hour “capstone” course (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">D. Two additional 3-hour courses in one of the four areas (6 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Course options for students:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">I. Art &amp; Art History</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AHIS 101 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AHIS 102 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism II (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">DRAW 101 Beginning Drawing (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CERM 131 Intro to Ceramics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHOT 161 Beginning Photography I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Art Studio 200-level courses: Prereq: Vis-Lit 140A, B &amp; 141A, B</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Art History 200-level courses: Prereq: Sophomore standing</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Art History 300-level courses: Prereq: AHIS 101 &amp; AHIS 102 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">II. Theatre &amp; Film</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">THEA 112G Intro to Theatre (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">THEA 114 Basic Acting Techniques I (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">THEA 201 Technical Theatre Practice (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">THEA 234 Scripts in Performance (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">THEA 335 History of Theatre I (3 cr) Prereq: THEA 112G</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">THEA 336 History of Theatre II (3 cr) Prereq: THEA 112G</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">III. Music</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Academic Courses</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 275 Music in Film (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 276G The Music Experience (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 287 The History of Rock Music (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 387 History of American Jazz (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 389 Arts of the 20th Century: 1945-Present (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Ensembles</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 241 All-Collegiate Choir (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 243 Varsity Chorus (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 245 The University Singers (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 246 University Chorale (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 247 Symphony Orchestra (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 248A Wind Ensemble (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 248B Symphonic Band (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 248E Marching Band (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 249 Chamber Singers (1 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 251 Big Red Singers (1 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 253A Jazz Ensemble I (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 253B Jazz Ensemble II (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUNM 253E Jazz Vocal Ensemble (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">IV. Dance</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">DANC 112 Modern Dance &amp; Ballet I (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">DANC 159 Intro to the History of Dance (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">Group 5—Languages—Classical and Modern: 0-6 hours <br />Fulfilled by the completion of 6 credit hours at the 200 level or above in a single foreign language in one of the following departments: classics and religious studies, modern languages and literatures, or anthropology. Instruction is currently available in Biblical Hebrew, Chinese, Czech, French, German, Greek, Japanese, Lakota, Latin, Russian, and Spanish. A student who has completed the fourth-year level of one foreign language in high school is exempt from the languages requirement. Foreign language courses numbered 200 or higher will count also in Group 2. Foreigh language courses at the 100-level apply only to Group 3.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Language courses at the 100-level or those numbered 201, 202 or 210 do not apply to Group 4 concentrations. Language course numbered 203, 204, or 300 and higher will apply to Group 4 concentrations.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Options for completion of language requirement:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Regular four-semester sequence: 101, 102, 201, and 202 (5, 5, 3, 3 hours for a total of 16)</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Three-semester sequence: 101, 102, and 210 (5, 5, 6 hours for a total of 16)</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. 101, 102 fall and spring semesters; 201, 202 summer sessions (5, 5, 3, 3 hours for a total of 16). This and the option below constitute the only possibilities to finish the complete requirement in one year.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. (For Spanish) 101, 102 at UNL; 201, 202 at Monterrey Summer Institute (6 hours). (5, 5, 6 hours for a total of 16.) One six-week summer session (1st summer session). See modern languages non-majors adviser for information and application.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">Students who have taken three years or fewer of a foreign language in high school should contact the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures for recommended placement.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student who achieves a specified scaled score in the College Level Examination Program (CLEP) subject exam in French, German and Spanish, Levels 1 and 2, may be exempted from the language requirement and may also receive credit for the fourth semester course in the language. Students who want to exercise this option must receive permission from the dean of the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A transfer student with 11 or 12 semester hours of accepted credit in a single foreign language has two choices: a) to complete 201 and 202 in the same language; or b) to enroll in 202 with permission of the chair of the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student from a foreign country who has demonstrated acceptable proficiency in his or her native language (other than English) is exempted from the foreign language requirement without credit toward the degree. United States citizens who present acceptable evidence that their second language is English are exempted from the language requirement without credit toward the degree. All such students should see the dean of the College of Journalism and Mass Communications for this exemption. If students choose to complete Group 4 with two minors and either (or both) of the two minors requires less than 18 hours, the hours remaining to total 36 may be taken in either of the two areas.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">Group 6—At least 30 of the 125 (or 130) semester hours of credit must be in courses numbered above 299. </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> ALEC 397E and ALEC 397K do not count toward these 30 hours.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Hours Required for Graduation </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A minimum of 120 semester hours of credit is required for graduation from the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">C- and D Grades </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The college will accept no more than 15 semester hours of grades less than a C from any program outside the University of Nebraska system. No grades less than a C will count toward a major, a minor, or concentration.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The college will accept up to 24 hours of Pass/No Pass courses toward a bachelor of journalism degree, subject to the following limits. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All courses in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications must be taken for grade only. No journalism course may be taken Pass/No Pass. This applies to both majors and non-majors.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Pass/No Pass (P/N) option is designed to be used by students seeking to expand their intellectual horizons by taking courses in areas where they may have minimum preparation without adversely affecting a student’s grade point average.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Neither a P (pass) nor an N (no pass) contributes to a student’s GPA.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. P (pass) is interpreted to mean a grade of C or better. A student who earns a C- or lower will receive a grade of N.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. P/N is not available to students on academic probation unless the course is offered only that way.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. For undergraduates, the 24-hour college limit shall apply. This limit does not include courses offered on a Pass/No Pass only basis or AP credit. This limit does apply to transfer courses from UNO, UNK, UNMC, and other institutions.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. P/N hours can count toward fulfillment of group requirements, including concentrations, up to the 24 credit hour maximum. No journalism major may take a journalism course Pass/No Pass.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">6. Students may change from graded to P/N only until half way through the course. Additionally, after the half-way date, a student registered for P/N cannot change to graded unless the P/N registration is in conflict with a professor, department, college, or university policy governing P/N. Changing from graded to P/N or from P/N to graded can be completed on MyRED or by filing a drop/add form with the Office of Registration and Records, 107 Canfield Administration Building, and needs no instructor’s approval.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Residency</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must complete at least 30 of the 120 total hours for their degree at UNL. Students must complete at least 1/2 of their major course work including 6 hours above 299 in their major, and 15 of the 30 hours required above 299 in residence. Students transferring hours into the advertising and public relations or journalism majors must meet additional requirements, which are described under Transfer Credit Rules. To encourage participation in international study, the college accepts all prior-approved study-abroad credits as hours in residence. UNL open enrollment and summer independent study courses count toward residence.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Credit Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The goal of the following policy is to ensure that students from other campuses meet the same standards required of students who take all their courses at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln’s College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The college will accept up to 6 hours in journalism and mass communications courses taken at institutions that do not have an accredited journalism and mass communications program. Students must take the remainder of the required hours in journalism courses on campus at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. In advertising and public relations, these courses must include 360 and 489 and in broadcasting, 370 and 372 or 360 and 362. In journalism, the courses must include 302 and 450. Students from ACEJMC-accredited programs may request equivalency reviews of the required courses at those schools. Degree candidates must accumulate 80 credit hours of non-journalism classes, 65 of those in disciplines listed as Liberal Education/Liberal Arts.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Credit for courses taken at foreign universities and colleges will be transferred only after evaluation by the appropriate professor in the major. This evaluation may include examination of the student over subject matter studied at the foreign institution. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Normally, credit is not given for pre-university work. In some instances, it may be possible to receive credit through satisfactory examination.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DEGREES &amp; MAJORS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Bachelor of Journalism Degree Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A minimum of 120 semester hours of credit is required for graduation from the College of Journalism and Mass Communications. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A maximum of 12 hours of military science (MLSC), naval science (NAVS), and aerospace studies (AERO) may be counted toward the degree.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A maximum of 4 hours of practice courses in varsity sports and recreational activity courses (ATHP, COMB, FITN, INDV, ODED and RACS) or Basic Military Science, which is credit for active military duty, not ROTC course work.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Majors</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The major is 38 hours in advertising and public relations, 38 hours in broadcasting and 38 hours in journalism.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must choose at least one of three undergraduate majors—advertising and public relations, broadcasting, or journalism. Each of these majors requires professional courses for students. Additionally, all students must take the core courses–JOMC 101, JOMC 162, JOMC 163, JOMC 164, JOMC 165, JOMC 486, and JOMC 487.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students may complete two majors in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications by completing all requirements for each major; however, the second major in the college will not take the place of a concentration outside the college.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Intercollege Studies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications pursuing a bachelor of journalism degree may also complete a second major in the College of Arts and Sciences as part of a four-year program. In addition to ACE and College of Journalism and Mass Communications requirements, students will be expected to meet all College of Arts and Sciences distribution requirements and major requirements. Because students choosing this option will not be earning a degree from Arts and Sciences, they will not be eligible for Arts and Sciences-based scholarships and aid, but they will be eligible for consideration for Phi Beta Kappa.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student who prefers to receive the second degree would file for dual matriculation. Such a student would complete an additional 30 hours as part of earning the second degree.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">JGEN courses, which are open to students from any college, do not count in any College of Journalism and Mass Communications major. Non-College of Journalism and Mass Communications students must have permission to enroll in any ADPR, BRDC, or JOUR courses. Permission generally is reserved for students whose colleges have agreements with the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">GRADUATE STUDENT INFORMATION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Graduate Courses</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Seniors in the University who have obtained in advance the approval of the dean for Graduate Studies may receive up to 12 credit hours for graduate courses taken in addition to the courses necessary to complete their undergraduate work, provided that such credits are earned within the calendar year prior to receipt of the baccalaureate. For procedures, inquire at the Office of Graduate Studies.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Course work taken prior to receipt of the baccalaureate may not always be accepted for transfer to other institutions as graduate work.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">The Graduate Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A graduate program, leading to the master of arts degree, was established in 1975. It is designed to prepare the student to translate more effectively to mass audiences the complexities of a rapidly changing society. Emphasis may be placed on advertising and public relations, broadcasting, or journalism. Students entering the program must have the equivalent of an undergraduate major in an accredited program in journalism and mass communications or extensive professional experience. Students also can earn a masters degree in journalism in an interdisciplinary program that includes advertising, marketing and communication studies. Persons seeking more information about graduate study in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications should consult the graduate bulletin or call or write the Gilbert M. and Martha H. Hitchcock Center for Graduate Study and Professional Journalism, 127 Andersen Hall, 402-472-3042, or visit the college’s Web site.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Hitchcock Center for Graduate Study and Professional Journalism Development</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Hitchcock Center, with a $250,000 endowment from the Gilbert M. and Martha H. Hitchcock Foundation, helps finance the graduate program in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications and further develops the skills of Nebraska’s professional journalists. It accomplishes the latter goal by giving direct support to the state’s professional journalists through research projects and statewide workshops aimed at improving skills in newswriting, advertising and broadcasting. The center also funds a $5,000 graduate fellowship and a distinguished faculty chair. Gilbert M. Hitchcock was a United States senator from Nebraska and founder of the </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Omaha World-Herald</span><span class="generated-style">.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
