<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>LIBR College page-11</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="libr-college-page-11">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">University Libraries</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Joan Giesecke, D.P.A., Dean of Libraries and Professor</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Nancy Busch, Ph.D., Associate Dean and Professor</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">Elaine Westbrooks, M.L.I.S., Associate Dean and Associate Professor</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">The Libraries</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">The University Libraries, comprised of Love Library and six branch libraries, is the only comprehensive research library in Nebraska. In the branches, students will find specialized collections on subjects such as: architecture, engineering, geology, mathematics, and music. Agricultural materials can be found at the C.Y. Thompson Library on the East Campus. Love Library, the six branch libraries, and the Marvin and Virginia Schmid Law Library, offer both in-house and remote access to a robust set of on-line information services. The Libraries Encore search interface offers access to a vast array of resources including electronic books, full-text journal articles, and online archival material. Library services include in-person, telephone, and online reference and research assistance, specialized subject area research assistance, and interlibrary loan and document delivery services. C.Y. Thompson and Love Library have wireless networking, and laptop computers are available for check out. Computer labs are located in Love and C.Y. Thompson Libraries.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">For further information, please consult the Libraries’ main page:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Main Libraries page: http://libraries.unl.edu</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Encore: http://libraries.unl.edu</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Librarian Subject Specialties: http://libraries.unl.edu/subjspecialists</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Courses of Instruction</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">LIBR 110. Introduction to Library Research</span><span class="generated-style"> (1 cr) A seven-week independent learning course.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The course provides the skills necessary for doing college-level research:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Identifying various information types and when to use them</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Developing strong search strategies</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Recognizing and avoiding plagiarism</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Evaluating online and print information</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Utilizing the resources of a large academic library</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Course of Instruction</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students should take Library 110 in their first or second year</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Designed to support the research activities done for other UNL courses</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Grading</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Course is Pass/No Pass</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">P (Pass) is interpreted to mean a grade of C or better. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A student who earns a C- or lower will receive a grade of N.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Grading Appeals</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student who feels s/he has been unfairly graded may take the following sequential steps:</span></p>
				<ol>
					<li class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">Talk with the course instructor.</span></li>
					<li class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">Talk with the instructor’s department chair.</span></li>
				</ol>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
