<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Public Affairs &amp; Community Service Main Page</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="public-affairs-community-service-main-page">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="college-name"><span class="generated-style">College of Public Affairs &amp; Community Service</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Public Affairs &amp; Community Service</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Administered by the University of Nebraska at Omaha</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="generated-style">John Bartle, Ph.D., Interim Dean</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Public Affairs and Community Service (CPACS) on the Lincoln campus offers all undergraduate course work required for the bachelor of science degree in criminology and criminal justice. A minor in criminology and criminal justice is also offered in Lincoln. The College also offers all course work for a certificate or minor in gerontology on the Lincoln campus.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">College Admission </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who have been admitted to the University may apply for entrance to the College of Public Affairs and Community Service during initial registration by indicating their preference in the appropriate place on the University Application for Admission form. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who wish to transfer into the College from another institution or one of the schools or colleges within the University must request permission from the Dean’s Office and the department or school offering the student’s intended major. A minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.5 is required to transfer into the College.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who wish to readmit to the College must also have a minimum 2.5 cumulative GPA.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students with high school admission deficiencies that have been admitted to UNL may enter the College of Public Affairs and Community Service but must remove any deficiencies according to University policy.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADVISING</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Academic Advising</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are responsible for knowing and completing all requirements of their chosen degree program. The aim and purpose of academic advising is to assist students in career planning, meeting the requirements of the degree program and in interpreting College policy regarding academic requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students should see an adviser whenever questions arise concerning their academic programs. Students are encouraged to seek advisement with their assigned academic adviser at least two times per year, particularly, when registering for the senior year.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ACADEMIC PROGRAMS &amp; POLICIES</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Exclusions and Restrictions</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Credit earned in courses below the 100 level may not be applied toward the degree offered by the College of Public Affairs and Community Service.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Credit Rules</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Credit by Examination</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The student should refer all questions concerning the acceptability of credits earned in programs such as Cooperative Education and Credit by Examination to the department in which enrolled.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Dual Degrees</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student who wishes to meet the requirements for two baccalaureate degrees must complete a minimum of 30 additional semester hours at the University beyond the first degree in order to be awarded a second degree.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Recognition</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Dean’s List</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students enrolled in the College of Public Affairs and Community Service who maintain a grade point average of 3.5 or better while carrying 12 graded hours or more will earn the distinction of being placed on the Dean’s Honor List at the end of each semester.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Degrees with Honors</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The baccalaureate degrees with honors are awarded as follows:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. To all graduates whose scholastic average for their entire university career and at UNO is 3.51 or above, but below 3.63, the degree cum laude.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. To all graduates whose scholastic average for their entire university career and at UNO is 3.63 or above, but below 3.87, the degree magna cum laude.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. To all graduates whose scholastic average for their entire university career and at UNO is 3.87 or above, the degree summa cum laude.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">To qualify for honors, a student must have earned at least 60 semester hours within the University of Nebraska system, 30 hours of which must be completed at the University of Nebraska at Omaha and in which letter grades of “A,” “B,” “C,” or “D” are received. Grades awarded in all courses taken at all colleges and universities attended are included in computing the Grade Point Average (GPA) for determining eligibility for honors. It should be noted that the GPA included in the student grade reports issued by the Registrar’s Office reflects only courses taken at UNO, UNL, UNMC and UNK. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Senior Check/Degree Audit</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">During the second semester of their junior year, or after completing approximately 89 hours, students should apply for an audit of their academic records to be sure that all requirements will be met before the anticipated date of graduation. Criminology and criminal justice majors may request the audit at the CPACS Office, 310 Nebraska Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Criminology and criminal justice majors must also file an application for graduation at the CPACS Office either just prior to or early in the semester they intend to graduate. Failure to meet the published deadline may delay graduation until the next semester.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">BULLETIN TO USE</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Choice of Catalog Policy</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student registering in the College of Public Affairs and Community Service for the first time may, except for limitations described below, complete work for the degree according to the requirements of 1) the catalog in effect the year the student enters CPACS, or 2) the catalog current at the time the student applies for the degree.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students entering the College for the first time in the summer will be subject to the catalog for the academic year immediately following.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students formerly in a CPACS program who drop out of the College for one year must complete requirements of the catalog current at the time of readmission.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Failure to complete the requirements for the degree within seven years after the date the student first enters the College will subject the student to graduation under the requirements of a later catalog to be approved by the Dean.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College reserves the right to institute and make effective, after due notice, during the course of a student’s work toward a degree, any new ruling which may be necessary for the general good of the College and to substitute courses currently offered for those no longer offered.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">COLLEGE DEGREE REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Achievement-Centered Education (ACE)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All criminology and criminal justice students who are following the 2012-2013 Undergraduate Bulletin must fulfill the Achievement-Centered Education (ACE) requirements. The 30-hour ACE requirement will include a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement-Centered Education (ACE student learning outcome areas which can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of courses they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Foreign Languages/Language Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the College of Public Affairs and Community Service who have completed the University of Nebraska high school admission requirement of two years in the same language will not be required to complete additional language for their degree.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Hours Required for Graduation</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each candidate must present a total of at least 120 semester hours of college credit to meet graduation requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">C- and D Grades </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A minimum grade of at least C- must be earned in all required courses within the major, unless a higher grade is designated by the department/school. Completion of a course within the major with a grade below a C- will not be considered as having fulfilled prerequisite requirements for additional courses taken in the major field of study. A higher grade may be designated by the department/school.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">See individual school/department limitations regarding Pass/No Pass.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each candidate for the degree must attain a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.0. A minimum grade of at least C- must be earned in all required courses within the major, unless a higher grade is designated by the department/school. All grades reported by the faculty to the registrar become a part of the student’s permanent record and are included in the computation of the grade point average, even though some of these grades may be for work done in excess of the 120 hours required for graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Credit Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The transfer of D grades in non-major courses are accepted only from within the University of Nebraska system. Students from other institutions must present a grade of C- or above for all course work. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Level Requirements (Hour Requirement 300+)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Individual departments/schools should be consulted for the minimum number of upper division hours required.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Residency</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Thirty of the last 36 hours required for the degree must be registered for and carried within the University of Nebraska system.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Extended Education and Independent Study Rules </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Individual schools/departments should be consulted for rules regarding Extended Education and Independent Study credit applicable to majors or minors.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DEGREES &amp; MAJORS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Bachelor of Science in Criminology and Criminal Justice (BSCCJ)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Although the bachelor of science in criminology and criminal justice degree can be earned in its entirety on the Lincoln campus, the degree is granted by the University of Nebraska at Omaha.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">GRADUATE STUDENT INFORMATION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Public Affairs and Community Service offers graduate programs in Criminology and Criminal Justice, Gerontology, Social Work, and Public Administration. Refer to the College of Public Affairs and Community Service at the University of Nebraska at Omaha Web site (http://cpacs.unomaha.edu) for information on these graduate programs.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MINORS &amp; AREAS OF SPECIALIZATIONS OFFERED</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minor in Criminology and Criminal Justice </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The requirements to earn a minor in criminology and criminal justice will consist of a minimum of 18 credit hours to include CRIM 101 Survey of Criminal Justice (3 cr), a minimum of two of the three CRIM 203 Police and Society, CRIM 211 The Criminal Court System, CRIM 221 Survey of Corrections (6 cr), and a minimum of 9 credit hours of upper level (300/400) criminology and criminal justice courses (excluding CRIM 300 Applied Statistics). An overall C average in courses applied to the minor is required and all courses must be taken for a letter grade (not Pass/No Pass). In addition, all 9 credit hours of upper division course work must be taken in residence at the University of Nebraska.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minor or Certificate in Gerontology</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Undergraduates may earn a certificate or minor in gerontology. The certificate consists of 15 hours of specified course work plus a one-semester practicum. The minor is comprised of 18 hours of course work. Although an undergraduate major in gerontology is not offered on the UNL campus, the certificate program may be used as a minor or concentration within several degree programs earned through other University departments.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Courses that meet the gerontology requirement are taught by gerontology department faculty as well as related faculty in other UNL and UNO departments. Students should consult the Department of Gerontology for the appropriate selection of courses.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Application materials for admission to the Gerontology Certificate Program can be obtained either from the Department office, 310 Nebraska Hall (402-472-0754); or CPACS Building 211 on the Omaha campus (402-554-2272), or at http://www.unomaha.edu/gero.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-m-p"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Appeals Procedure</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who wish to appeal a grade which they feel was capriciously or prejudicially given shall first discuss the matter with the instructor within 30 days of the final course grade being posted. If the matter is not resolved, the student must meet with the department/school chairperson. If a satisfactory agreement cannot be reached, the student must appeal, in writing, to the department/school curriculum committee. If a satisfactory agreement cannot be reached, the student may submit a written appeal to the Office of the Dean within 20 working days of the exhaustion of the departmental procedures.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Committee on Academic Standards and Curriculum for the College of Public Affairs and Community Service is the official body for handling the appeal.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In the event that the instructor is unavailable for handling a grade complaint, the student will meet with the Department Chair/School Director and the Dean to determine the most appropriate course of action agreeable to all parties.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
