<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC) Main Page</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="reserve-officers-training-corps-rotc-main-page">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="generated-style">Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Information about the Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) program is available on the UNL Army, Navy, Marines and Air Force ROTC websites.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Military Science/Army ROTC</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Chair: Lt. Col. James D. Lander</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">110 Pershing Military &amp; Naval Science Building</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">http://www.unl.edu/armyrotc</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Naval Science/Naval ROTC</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Chair: Capt. Jeffrey Whiting</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">103 Pershing Military and Naval Science Building</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">http://www.unl.edu/nrotc/</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Aerospace Studies/Air Force ROTC</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Chair: Lt. Col. Stephen Gibson</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">209 Pershing Military and Naval Science Building</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">http://www.unl.edu/afrotc/</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For the policy regarding elective credit in Military Science, Naval Science, or Aerospace Studies, students majoring in the College of Arts and Sciences and College of Architecture should contact their academic adviser. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Military Science/Army ROTC</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Military Science is a United States Army ROTC program offered at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln through a cooperative effort contractually agreed to by the United States Army and the University.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Objectives</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Prepare, graduate, and commission students with leadership potential to serve as commissioned officers in the United States Army, Army Reserve and National Guard components</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Develop leadership skills, managerial skills and a basic understanding of associated professional knowledge with a strong sense of personal integrity, honor and individual responsibility</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Benefits</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Academic credits earned may apply toward the student’s degree depending on the discipline</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Upon successful completion of the ROTC program and all bachelor degree requirements, students earn a commission as a Second Lieutenant in the United States Army concurrent with an academic degree in a discipline of choice</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Receive leadership training designed to qualify graduates for civilian careers in executive and management positions upon completion of their military commitment</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Uniforms, textbooks and equipment are provided to the student</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Participation in Army ROTC</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">There are three basic ways to participate in Army ROTC:</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">1. Participating student:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Registers for basic military science classes in sequential order (101 through 202 only), but not the military science lab.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Is not allowed to participate in activities outside the classroom (physical training, leadership labs or field training).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Receives academic credit only; no credit towards commissioning.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">2. Enrolled Cadet:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Fully participates in ROTC by taking the military science classes and leadership labs.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Participates in physical and field training exercises. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Wears the Army uniform to all ROTC functions.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Must adhere to military customs and standards.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Unless contracted, no military obligation is incurred (Basic Course only).</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">3. Contracted Cadet:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Like the enrolled Cadet, fully participates in military science classes, leadership labs, and physical and field training exercises; wears the army uniform to all ROTC functions; and adheres to military customs and standards.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Includes progression, lateral entry and scholarship Cadets.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Is under obligation of future military service to receive benefits from ROTC. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">National and Campus Based ROTC scholarship winners must contract to receive stipend and scholarship benefits.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Non-scholarship Cadets must contract by the MS III/junior year in order to continue in the program.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Curriculum</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Military science is an academic elective program, not an academic major. The overall curricula is designed and standardized by a national review process controlled by U.S. Army Cadet Command.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Four-year program:</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">The Army ROTC four-year program consists of two parts: Basic Course and Advanced Course.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Basic Course: One basic level military science course (MLSC 101, MLSC 102, MLSC 201, and MLSC 202) is taken each semester in conjunction with one lab session per week during the freshman and sophomore years. Students may participate in the Army ROTC basic level courses without incurring any military obligation.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Advanced Course: One advanced level military science course (MLSC 301, MLSC 302, MLSC 401, and MLSC 402) is taken each semester along with one lab session per week during the junior and senior years. Military science advanced courses may only be taken by students who are contracting to earn a commission and have completed Basic Course (or equivalency).</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Two-year program: </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Army ROTC two-year program accommodates upper-class students already enrolled at or transferring to UNL who have not taken the Basic Course. To participate in this program, the student shall have successfully completed the Leader’s Training Course (LTC), Army Basic Combat Training, or alternate approved training during the summer before entering the Advanced Course.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Commissioning Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Upon graduation with a degree from the University and successful completion of Army ROTC requirements, you will commission into the Army, Army Reserve, or Army National Guard as a Second Lieutenant. The requirements are:</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Satisfactory completion of:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The Basic Course (via enrollment in the program and/or placement credit)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The Advanced Course</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Leader Development and Assessment Course</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A course in Military History (HIST 303 or HIST 304)</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The cadet must:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maintain at least a 2.0 cumulative grade point average (GPA).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Pass a Department of Defense medical examination within 24 months of the date of commissioning.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Pass the Army Physical Fitness Test within 30 days of the date of commissioning.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Not have exceeded the 32nd birthday (27th for scholarship students) by December 30 of the year of commissioning.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For information on financial assistance, Army ROTC scholarships, Army ROTC courses and general information about the UNL Army ROTC program, visit www.unl.edu/armyrotc. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Naval Science/Naval ROTC </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps (NROTC) is a competitive program designed for the purpose of educating men and women for service as commissioned officers in the United States Navy and Marine Corps. Students accepted into the program receive training and experience in the one quality that will always be in great demand: Leadership. Upon commissioning, University of Nebraska NROTC graduates serve in such diverse fields as aviation, surface warfare, submarine warfare, nursing, and as United States Marines.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Benefits</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Navy NROTC Midshipmen receive a national scholarship covering full tuition and fees, a stipend for books, and a monthly stipend to help cover living expenses. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">There is also a non-scholarship program for students who did not initially qualify for a national scholarship but are interested in a career in the United States Navy or United States Marine Corps. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All NROTC students receive their full uniform. </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Curriculum</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Four-Year Scholarship Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Four-Year NROTC scholarships are awarded annually based on a competitive selection process in which consideration is given to factors such as high school record, college board scores, extracurricular activities, and leadership qualities. The primary applicant to this program is a high school senior, but college freshman may also qualify.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Three-Year Scholarship Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">During their freshman year at UNL, students may apply for the national scholarship. It is recommended that students interested in this possibility enroll in NAVS classes and participate in battalion activities.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Two-Year Scholarship Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Two-Year NROTC scholarships are awarded to current students that are approaching their junior year. Consideration is given to factors such as performance in college and leadership potential. Recipients of this scholarship attend a six-week naval indoctrination program in Rhode Island the summer before their junior year.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">College Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A non-scholarship program designed for students that did not qualify or are not interested in an NROTC Scholarship. Students in the College Program are fully integrated in the NROTC program and qualify for the same careers in the Navy and Marine Corps upon graduation. There is also opportunity for College Program students to compete for NROTC scholarships after one or more semesters of exemplary performance. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For information on financial assistance, Navy and Marine Corps ROTC Scholarships, and general information about the UNL Naval ROTC program, visit http://www.unl.edu/nrotc/</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Naval Science Open Curriculum</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Any University of Nebraska–Lincoln student may take naval science academic courses for college credit. However, enrollment in leadership laboratories is restricted to students who are accepted into the NROTC program. No active duty obligation is incurred.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Individualized Program of Studies in Naval Science</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">It is possible to minor in naval science under the Individualized Program of Studies program in the College of Arts and Sciences. All College of Arts and Sciences students interested in the naval science major are eligible.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">An individualized studies minor requires 24 credit hours, including 9 in one department and 12 within the College of Arts and Sciences. Approval of the program of studies must be obtained from the student’s arts and sciences adviser and endorsed by a representative of the dean of the College of Arts and Sciences.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Although students may take additional naval science courses beyond the 12-credit-hour maximum, credits received in these courses will not count toward a degree in the College of Arts and Sciences.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students enrolled in the NROTC program must take 23 credits in naval science subjects to earn a commission and should schedule all required classes prior to asking their College of Arts and Sciences adviser for approval of the Individualized Program of Studies.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Aerospace Studies/Air Force ROTC</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who are considering seeking a commission in the Armed Forces should be aware that Department of Defense regulations impose standards of personal conduct on Armed Forces personnel, as reflected in the Uniform Code of Military Justice, which may not be consistent with University Equal Opportunity standards. For information on these policies contact any one of the commanders of UNL’s ROTC programs or Student Legal Services.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department of Aerospace Studies is a United States Air Force ROTC program offered at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln through a cooperative effort contractually agreed to by the Air Force and the University.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Eligibility and Enrollment</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Aerospace Studies classes are open to all full-time students at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, as well as students at Nebraska Wesleyan University, Doane College (Crete), and Concordia University (Seward), who have “visiting student” arrangements with the University of Nebraska for Air Force ROTC. Students register for Aerospace Studies the same way they sign up for any other course on campus. In addition to academic class, students are registered for the corresponding leadership lab.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To contract with the Air Force at the start of the junior year or upon receipt of a scholarship, you must be a United States citizen and meet age and other requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Programs</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">You can participate in Air Force ROTC by enrolling in either the Four-Year or Three-Year program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Scholarships/Benefits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">High school and college students compete for Air Force ROTC college scholarships. The scholarships provide full tuition, fees, and textbook allowance. Students on scholarship also receive a monthly tax-free allowance during the school year that ranges from $300-$500.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Curriculum</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Any University of Nebraska–Lincoln, Doane College, Nebraska Wesleyan, and Concordia University student may take Aerospace Studies academic courses for college credit. Textbooks are free and provided by the Aerospace Department. No active duty obligation is incurred. Leadership laboratories are open only to students eligible for, and enrolled in, the Air Force ROTC program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Credit Hours</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Credit hours earned by students enrolled in Aerospace Studies may be used to fulfill elective credit hour requirements for graduation for any college in the University.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Military Obligation</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">No military obligation results from enrolling in the freshman or sophomore courses in Aerospace Studies. A military obligation occurs only when a student enters the junior year of the program or accepts an Air Force ROTC scholarship. Students who complete Air Force ROTC are commissioned Second Lieutenants and will go on active duty in the United States Air Force after graduation from the University. The active duty service commitment varies from 4-10 years. (Pilots, navigators, and air battle managers incur a longer active duty commitment.)</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Delay for Graduate Education.</span><span class="generated-style"> An Air Force ROTC student is commissioned upon graduation from the University. If students are qualified for and interested in working toward advanced degrees, deferment from active duty may be possible until graduate degrees have been completed.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Field Training Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each student who successfully receives a competitive allocation to enter the junior year professional officer course (POC) program must attend one field training encampment. This training is held at Maxwell AFB, AL, during the summer between their sophomore and junior year. Field training emphasizes development of leadership abilities and informs students of the many challenging career opportunities available in the Air Force. Students receive travel allowances and pay for field training. All accommodations, clothing, and food are furnished. Successful completion of field training is required to enter the POC.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
