<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>General Information Main Page</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="general-information-main-page">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="college-name"><span class="generated-style">General Information</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission Categories</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Assured Admission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">First-time students who graduate from an accredited high school, have successfully demonstrated competency in the required five subject areas, and meet minimum performance requirements are assured admission to the University. These five subject areas are English, mathematics, natural sciences, social studies, and foreign language. Successful completion of a minimum of 16 core course requirements, either at the secondary school level or at the college level, is typically used to demonstrate competency. Performance requirements for freshmen include an ACT composite score of 20 or higher, or an SAT combined score of 950 or higher, or a high school class rank in the upper one-half of the graduating class. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Prospective transfer students are also expected to demonstrate competency in the core course requirements, as well as have a cumulative grade point average of at least a C average (2.0 on a 4.0 scale) and at least a C average in the last semester of college enrollment. Several UNL undergraduate colleges require higher grade point averages for transferring into specific academic programs. See the college sections in this bulletin for more specific information about transfer requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Deficiencies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Because admission requirements establish the level of knowledge and skills which are needed for a student to succeed at UNL, students who are admitted with core course deficiencies in foreign language and geometry are expected to quickly remove them. Deficiencies must be removed before a student is eligible for graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Undergraduate Transfer Credit Policy</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This statement outlines important information for students who present undergraduate credit for transfer to a degree program at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. Transfer credit is any post-secondary credit earned at an institution outside the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, including other institutions in the University of Nebraska System (NCTA, UNK, UNO, and UNMC). </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The college within the University of Nebraska–Lincoln in which a student enrolls (the degree college) has ultimate responsibility for determining how all credit, including transfer credit, will apply to a specific degree program. Evaluation of transfer credit is based on a review of the comparability of the nature, content and level of the learning experience and its appropriateness to the student’s degree program. The acceptance and use of transfer credit are subject to limitations in accordance with the educational policies of The University of Nebraska–Lincoln. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Credit Practices</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The University of Nebraska–Lincoln endorses the Joint Statement on Transfer and Award of Academic Credit approved by the American Council on Education (ACE), the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers (AACRAO), and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA). The current issue of Transfer Credit Practices of Designated Educational Institutions, published by AACRAO is an example of a reference used in determining transfer credit.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Applicants must request an official transcript sent to the Office of Admissions from each college attended. Failure to provide transcripts from all colleges or universities attended may result in denial of the application or dismissal from the university. Grades from institutions outside the Universities in the NU System will be used for evaluation and admission, but will not become part of the University cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA). Each degree college determines its policy for acceptance and application of grades below C to degree requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">A. Credit presented for transfer from within the University of Nebraska System </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Credit earned at any institution within the University of Nebraska System will be accepted by UNL. Applicability to degree requirements is determined by the student’s degree college. Direct course equivalencies with UNK, UNO and UNMC, established by faculty, are maintained by the NU System and are available on-line at http://coursefinder.nebraska.edu. Applicability of courses without direct equivalencies will be at the discretion of the degree college. </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">B. Inter-institutional Agreements</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Associate to Baccalaureate Agreements.</span><span class="generated-style"> Agreements have been established for specific programs at selected community colleges. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Transfer courses equivalencies.</span><span class="generated-style"> Direct equivalencies have been established by UNL faculty for courses from a number of institutions including Nebraska Community Colleges and Nebraska College of Technical Agriculture. Applicability of courses without direct equivalencies will be at the discretion of the degree college. Transfer Course Equivalency tables are available on-line at http://admissions.unl.edu/nebraska/equivalency. While every effort is made to ensure accuracy, this information is subject to change.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">C. Credit presented for transfer which requires additional review by the degree college.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The following types of transfer credit require additional review by the student’s degree college within UNL to determine applicability to the student’s program of study. </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Credit in courses presented for transfer which do not have a direct equivalent as established by UNL faculty. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Credit in courses determined by University of Nebraska–Lincoln to be of a developmental, vocational, or technical nature.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Credit in courses or programs in which the institution granting the credit is not directly involved. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Credit presented for transfer from institutions not accredited by one of the regional accrediting commissions. (www.chea.org)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">In determining the acceptability of transfer credit from colleges which are not regionally accredited, acceptance practices indicated in the current issue of Transfer Credit Practices of Designated Educational Institutions, an AACRAO publication, will be used as a guide. For institutions not listed in the publication, guidance is requested from the designated reporting institution of the appropriate state.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Credit presented for transfer from institutions outside the United States. Transfer credit from foreign educational institutions may be granted after a determination of the type of institution involved, its recognition by the educational authorities of the foreign country, and an evaluation of the content, level, and comparability of the study to courses and programs at University of Nebraska–Lincoln. Credit may be granted in specific courses or assigned to general areas of study. Questions about foreign credentials and educational systems should be directed to the Office of Admissions.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Special Situations, Qualifications and Limitations related to Transfer of Credit</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Applicability of transfer credit to degree requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The student’s degree college within the University of Nebraska–Lincoln has ultimate responsibility for determining how all credit, including transfer credit, will apply to a specific degree program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Transfer credit from two-year institutions</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">No more than 60 semester or 90 quarter credits earned at two-year colleges can be applied to an undergraduate degree from University of Nebraska–Lincoln.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Lower division credit</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Lower division courses transferred to UNL will generally be used to meet lower division requirements. In the event that a lower division transfer course is used as a substitution for an upper division requirement at the university a student may be required to complete additional upper division hours for graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Residency requirement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The University’s colleges may require that specific courses or a certain number of credit hours be completed on the UNL campus to satisfy the residency requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Dual Credit earned while a student is enrolled in high school</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">When a student earns both high school and college credit for a course, the student must present a transcript from the original postsecondary institution offering credit for the course. Such courses will be evaluated as transfer credit. </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Other credit earned while in high school</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Many students enroll in one or more college courses while enrolled in high school. An official transcript of all courses attempted must be presented upon application unless the credit was earned at UNL. Credit from institutions outside the University of Nebraska–Lincoln will be evaluated as transfer credit </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Credit earned in the United States Armed Forces</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students with military service will be awarded 1 credit of military science for every three months of active duty up to a total of four credits. Credit for technical or specialized schools will be accepted to the extent that the material is applicable toward degree requirements at UNL.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Credit by Examination (CBE)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Programs accepted at University of Nebraska–Lincoln include the Advanced Placement (AP) Program, the International Baccalaureate (IB) Examinations, the College Level Examination Program (CLEP), and departmental examinations. For information on specific exams and required scores accepted for credit at UNL see: http://admissions.unl.edu/advanced. Credit by Exam (AP, IB, or CLEP credit) may not be transferred directly to University of Nebraska–Lincoln from another institution. However, the scores from these examinations may be sent to University of Nebraska–Lincoln from the testing agency, and credit will be awarded based on UNL’s AP, IB, and CLEP policies.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who anticipate applying to professional programs should inquire about the acceptability of Credit by Exam before registering for exams. </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Credit by Departmental Examination </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Credit by departmental examination allows regularly enrolled students to gain academic credit for knowledge they have acquired by self-study or experience. The student’s knowledge base is expected to parallel that of the specific UNL course for which the student wishes to gain credit. A fee of one-half of resident tuition is charged to administer and/or evaluate an examination for credit. Examinations for credit through UNL departments may be taken only by currently enrolled students. A student is not permitted to receive Credit by Examination in a course which is a prerequisite for a course already taken. Credit earned by examination is not applicable for use in an advanced degree program. Credit granted by another college for placement exams or locally designed test-out examinations will not be accepted in transfer. </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">University of Nebraska–Lincoln students who earn credit at another institution</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Current UNL students are urged to consult with the appropriate academic adviser before enrolling in any course intended to be applied to the student’s degree. Non-UNL credit for education abroad programs will be evaluated as transfer credit upon receipt of official transcripts. Current UNL students who wish to enroll in a course at another institution in the NU System should file an Intercampus Application, http://admissions.unl.edu/apply/intercampus.asp.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">University of Nebraska–Lincoln students who wish to transfer from one UNL college to another</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Current UNL students seeking to gain admission to another degree college must meet all standards for admission to the new college as a transfer applicant. The new college will evaluate all of the student’s credit, including transfer credit, to determine which credit will be applicable to degree requirements. </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Academic Policies and Procedures</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Academic Adviser Assignment</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The University considers faculty contact with students essential to academic planning and University life. Undergraduate students are assigned academic advisers through the college or department in which they are majoring. Undergraduate students who have not yet decided upon a college will be referred to an academic adviser in the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Students Responsibilities in Academic Advising</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The University of Nebraska–Lincoln is committed to providing effective academic advising to students as an essential component of their educational experience.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Department and college advisers are assigned to students in their programs for assistance in assessing educational goals, planning programs of study, understanding program requirements, and following policies and procedures. Professional academic advisers in the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center provide these services to students who have not yet declared their undergraduate college or major.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are ultimately responsible for fulfilling all the requirements of the curriculum in which they are enrolled. Students are also responsible for initiating advising contacts and preparing for advising sessions. The mentoring relationship between academic advisers and students is confidential and is strengthened by advisers listening with understanding to student concerns.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are expected to take responsibility for a successful university experience and effective advising session by:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">1. Participating in New Student Enrollment and priority registration programs;</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">2. Scheduling appointments with advisers well in advance of priority registration and at other times as needed;</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">3. Identifying class choices from requirements of the selected program or major;</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">4. Identifying questions to address in advising sessions;</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">5. Informing advisers of any special needs, deficiencies or barriers that might affect academic success;</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">6. Following academic policies and procedures and meeting academic calendar deadlines (e.g. registration, fee payment, senior check/degree audit, filing for degree, etc.);</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">7. Knowing and completing degree or program requirements;</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">8. Monitoring their progress toward meeting degree requirements by maintaining a copy of their academic records and seeking assistance to resolve any errors or questions; and</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">9. Acting on recommendations to seek assistance from the various student support services provided by the University.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Maximum Credit Hour Load</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Undergraduate students may register for up to 18 credit hours per semester, except for the College of Business Administration which allows a maximum of 19 credit hours and the College of Arts and Sciences and the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts which allow a student to register for up to 20 credit hours. Written permission from the college dean is required to exceed the credit hour per semester maximum and must be filed with an Override Authorization Form at the time of registration.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Class Attendance</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are expected to attend all lectures, recitations, quizzes, and laboratories regularly. The University has no regulation which permits cutting classes.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are responsible for the attendance policy set by instructors and should clear absences directly with them.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In cases where a student is unable to contact his or her instructors due to major illness, serious injury, or hospitalization or when given military orders which are effective immediately, a notice may be sent to the student’s instructors by the University Health Center, a family physician, or the Students Affairs Office, 106 Canfield Administration Building, 402-472-3755. This notice is for the instructor’s information only and does not relieve the student of contacting instructors as soon as possible.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students involved in University-sponsored activities, including intercollegiate athletics, may need to be excused from a class, lab, or studio meeting. In all instances it is the student’s responsibility to request permission for the absence (preferably in writing) from the instructor and to discuss how the absence will affect their ability to meet the course requirements. Students should do this as soon in the semester as possible. While instructors should seek to the greatest extent possible, consistent with course requirements, to make reasonable accommodation for a student involved in University-sponsored activities, students should recognize that not every course can accommodate absences and neither the absence (nor the notification of an absence) relieves them from meeting the course requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For complete information on class attendance, see the Schedule of Classes.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Glossary of Academic and Advising Terms</span></p>
				<dl class="glossary">
				<dt>Academic Adviser</dt>
				<dd>College staff member responsible for providing guidance in course and/or program-related topics including academic requirements; course schedules; personal, academic, or career information; and transition to college and academic progress.</dd>
				<dt>Academic Term (semester)</dt>
				<dd>Fall, spring, and summer weeks when classes are in session. The fall and spring semesters are approximately sixteen weeks long. The summer semester is between three to eight weeks long.</dd>
				<dt>Academic Year</dt><dd> The period composed of fall and spring semesters.</dd>
								<dt>Advanced Placement Credit</dt><dd> Credit awarded by UNL for appropriate scores on Advanced Placement Exams. http://admissions.unl.edu/discover/academics/advanced-credit/advanced-placement.aspx</dd>
								<dt> Bachelors Degree</dt><dd> Recognition of successful completion of a program of studies (usually about 120-130 semester credits), often with a specific major, minor, or concentration (commonly referred to as bachelor of arts or bachelor of science, etc.). </dd>
								<dt> Blackboard/My.UNL</dt><dd> A website that allows instructors to provide information on courses they are teaching available to their students. The information could include course syllabus, documents, discussion boards, etc. Some professors may use this site as a place to turn in assignments or complete exams. </dd>
								<dt>Career Services</dt><dd> Office that provides services relating to major exploration, career planning and placement. </dd>
								<dt>Class Standing</dt><dd> Based on credits earned 0-26 for freshmen; 27-52 for sophomores; 53-88 for juniors; 89 or more for seniors.</dd>
								<dt>Course Description</dt><dd> Prerequisites required for and the description of the main topics covered in a course. Can be found in the Undergraduate Bulletin: http://bulletin.unl.edu/undergraduate/.</dd>
								<dt>Credit Hour</dt><dd> A standard measure of the amount of instructional time required to successfully complete a course. For example, SOCI 101, Introduction to Sociology, is a 3 credit hour course, which means that it will meet for approximately three hours each week for one semester.</dd>
								<dt>Cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA)</dt><dd> A student’s grade point average for all University of Nebraska course work taken at Kearney, Lincoln and Omaha, based on the total number of quality points earned and the total number of semester hours attempted. </dd>
								<dt>Corequisite</dt><dd> A course that must be taken at the same time as another specified course. Common with sciences with a lab: BIOS 101 lecture must be taken with BIOS 101L lab component. </dd>
								<dt>Course Sequence</dt><dd> Entry level courses must be completed before taking higher level courses. Common course sequences are in math, languages, and sciences, but also apply to most disciplines. </dd>
								<dt>Degree Plan</dt><dd> An evaluation by the student and adviser of academic work completed and courses required for graduation.</dd>
								<dt>Degree Audit/DARS</dt><dd> An on-line program that tracks program requirements. This is located in MyRED. </dd>
								<dt>Department</dt><dd> Faculty and administrators associated with a particular discipline or program (the sociology department). </dd>
								<dt>Direct Equivalent</dt><dd> A course which has been evaluated by UNL and determined to be equivalent to a specific UNL course. A direct equivalent will fulfill the same requirement as the UNL course. </dd>
								<dt>Double Major</dt><dd> Student majoring in two programs within the same college. </dd>
								<dt>Drop</dt><dd> To cancel registration in a course. It is only available during the add/drop period as specified on the academic calendar. Students can drop a course through MyRED. </dd>
								<dt>Dual Enrollment</dt><dd> When a student earns both high school and college credit for a course.</dd>
								<dt>Dual Matriculation</dt><dd> A student is earning two bachelors degrees. This requires an additional 30 hours added to the student’s program along with the requirements of both degree colleges. An example would be a student receiving a bachelor of science in business administration and a bachelor of arts in global studies. </dd>
								<dt>Duplicate Credit</dt><dd> A course that has already been taken; a student can’t receive credit in the same course multiple times. This can also define taking two courses which are determined to have corresponding content, outcomes, and level (STAT 218, SOCI 206, EDPS 459, CRIM 300 and ECON 215). </dd>
								<dt>Education Abroad Credit</dt><dd> Credit earned by a UNL student while studying, interning, researching, or doing service learning outside the United States. Because of variation in educational systems and course work, this credit ideally should be previewed by department faculty before the education abroad experience. Credit transcribed from an institution outside the United States must be reviewed by specific department faculty to evaluate its applicability to the student’s degree program. </dd>
								<dt>Evaluation</dt><dd> Process by which the department/advising office evaluates transfer credit to determine its equivalence to a UNL course based on similar content, level and outcomes. May also refer to the process by which a student’s degree college evaluates transfer credit which does not have a direct equivalent. </dd>
								<dt>FERPA (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974)</dt><dd> Protects a student’s academic record within the post-secondary educational setting. </dd>
								<dt>Financial Aid</dt><dd> Funding provided to students from various sources to assist in expenses to attend college.</dd>
								<dt>Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)</dt><dd> A standardized application including detailed financial data that is required to determine eligibility for all financial aid programs.</dd>
								<dt>Full-Time (student)</dt><dd> Students registered for 12 or more credits in the fall or spring semester.</dd>
								<dt>General Education Requirements/Achievement Centered Education (ACE)</dt><dd> A set of courses and learning outcomes that is required for all students to help students gain a broader education related to social, global, humanity and artistic perspectives in a variety of academic disciplines. </dd>
								<dt>General Elective Credit (GNCR)</dt><dd> Transfer courses accepted as UNL elective credit. Application of elective credit to the student’s degree program is at the discretion of the student’s degree college.</dd>
								<dt>High School or remedial level course (HSCR)</dt><dd> Hours and courses that do not transfer even though they may have been earned at a postsecondary institution. This would include courses such as geometry and intermediate algebra. Some courses may transfer for non-degree hours. </dd>
								<dt>Holds</dt><dd> A hold on a student’s account can be from various offices needing action from the student. Common holds are for delinquent accounts, immunization records, library books, etc. Students can see details on their holds through MyRED, Student Center, and “Holds.” </dd>
								<dt>International Baccalaureate (IB Credit)</dt><dd> Credit awarded by UNL for appropriate scores on International Baccalaureate Exams. http://admissions.unl.edu/discover/academics/advanced-credit/ib-program.aspx</dd>
								<dt>International Credit (IVAL)</dt><dd> Credit earned at an institution outside the United States. Because educational systems vary greatly, all international credit must be reviewed by specific department faculty to evaluate its applicability to a UNL degree. To ease this process, some courses have been reviewed and transfer as direct equivalents.</dd>
								<dt>Incomplete</dt><dd> A grade given, usually under extenuating circumstances, when a student is not able to complete a course within the semester. The professor assigns a grade of incomplete at the end of the semester and works out a contractual agreement for completion. Grades of incomplete do not affect a student’s GPA. </dd>
								<dt>Lower Level (100 or 200 level)</dt><dd> General introductory courses, usually making up the first two years of a bachelors degree. Credit awarded by a community college is generally considered lower division credit. </dd>
								<dt>Major</dt><dd> A program of study in a degree where a significant number of the courses are in a single discipline or related disciplines in an interdisciplinary major. http://bulletin.unl.edu/undergraduate/major/</dd>
								<dt>Math Placement Exam</dt><dd> A math exam for students in order to determine the level of math at UNL that the student is academically prepared to complete. </dd>
								<dt>Matriculation</dt><dd> Formal application to and acceptance in a degree or certificate program during a specific semester.</dd>
								<dt>Minimum Grades</dt><dd> The lowest grade accepted to complete a requirement. Each college determines acceptability and applicability of course work with grades lower than “C” (2.0 on a 4.0 scale) including “C-.” </dd>
								<dt>Minor</dt><dd> A program of study requiring fewer courses than a major. Some majors require a minor and other majors do not require a minor. </dd>
								<dt>Modern Language Placement Exam</dt><dd> Readiness exam for students wanting to continue language in French, German, and Spanish. </dd>
								<dt>Multiple Course Equivalency</dt><dd> A direct equivalence involving a combination of courses. In some cases, the course content is divided differently. An accounting series may be divided into three courses at one institution which are equivalent to two courses at UNL. </dd>
								<dt>MyPLAN (My Personal Learning and Advising Network)</dt><dd> A tool located in My.UNL/Blackboard, used to connect with advisers and instructors. Many offices are using MyPLAN as an on-line appointment system for students as well. </dd>
								<dt>MyRED</dt><dd> An on-line tool used by students to view and keep track of their academic records, register for courses, see final course grades, view and maintain financial/scholarship processes, etc. </dd>
								<dt>Non Degree Applicable (NDAP)</dt><dd> Transfer course credit hours which are included in the equivalency and generally not degree-applicable. For example, if 4 credit hours are awarded for a course at another institution, but the equivalent UNL course awards 3 credit hours, the extra 1 semester hour of transfer credit may be recorded as NDAP and would not apply to the student’s degree. If a transfer course is awarded fewer credit hours than the equivalent UNL course, the evaluator may stipulate that the course will satisfy the requirement for the UNL course, without additional hours. </dd>
								<dt>Open Registration</dt><dd> Following Priority Registration when registration for the upcoming semesters is open to all students. </dd>
								<dt>Override</dt><dd> A professor can give permission for a student to be admitted into a closed course (usually by a schedule adjustment form or permission code). </dd>
								<dt>Pass/No Pass (P/NP)</dt><dd> This option does not affect a student’s GPA and has to be decided by a certain date located in the academic calendar and can be changed in MyRED. Some courses have the option to be taken as P/NP or only offered as P/NP. </dd>
								<dt>Pre-Professional Programs</dt><dd> Pre-Professional is an advising category for students preparing to enter a professional school. Pre-Health and Pre-Law areas are not majors and, therefore, cannot grant students baccalaureate degrees.</dd>
								<dt>Prerequisite</dt><dd> A course/requirement a student must pass before enrollment can take place in a more advanced course in the discipline or in a related discipline. A common prerequisite for calculus is college algebra and trigonometry.</dd>
								<dt>Priority Registration</dt><dd> Student’s registration time based on how many credits have been earned as well as the number of hours in progress (decided by the Office of the University Registrar). Priority Registration for the spring starts in October and ends in November; Priority Registration for the fall/summer starts in March and ends in April. </dd>
								<dt>Probation (academic or disciplinary)</dt><dd> A status assigned because of unsatisfactory grades or conduct.</dd>
								<dt>Registration</dt><dd> The process by which a student is enrolled in classes.</dd>
								<dt>Recitation/Quiz</dt><dd> Lecture is broken into smaller sections known as recitation or quiz; often used as a way for students to ask questions, gain additional course information and assignments, work with group members, or take quizzes. </dd>
								<dt>Repeating a Course</dt><dd> This policy allows students to repeat a course where an unsatisfactory grade was earned and use the higher grade earned during the second or third attempt to be used in GPA calculation. Please note that the initial enrollment in the course remains on the transcript with a note that the grade earned in the second or third attempt is used in GPA calculation.</dd>
								<dt>Special Topics Course</dt><dd> A course which subject matter may vary from semester to semester; it may include current or special topics. </dd>
								<dt>Student Identification Number (NUID)</dt><dd> A numeric code assigned to students that becomes their identity in university databases. This number is used in place of a social security number so that a student’s privacy can be maintained. </dd>
								<dt>Subject Credit (SUBJ)</dt><dd> Course transfers as subject area hours (e.g., ENGLXXX, MATHXXX) not assigned to a specific course. It can be designated with a level, such as 1XX for freshman level, 2XX for sophomore level, etc. </dd>
								<dt>Substitution</dt><dd> Process by which the degree college agrees to substitute a similar (comparable) course for a particular requirement of a student’s degree. This may occur when a course is not considered a direct equivalent. </dd>
								<dt>Syllabus</dt><dd> An outline of the main points of the course. This can also include specific topics covered by the course, important date and deadlines for the course, professor’s information, and books required for the course. </dd>
								<dt>Transcript</dt><dd> An official transcript is the original record verifying a student’s enrollment and grades, and certified (by signature and/or seal) by the institution. It is normally sent directly by mail upon the student’s written request. </dd>
								<dt>Transfer Course Equivalencies Table</dt><dd> An on-line table of courses from selected institutions listing the courses which have been reviewed by UNL faculty and the current UNL equivalent for those courses. Application of all courses to a specific UNL degree is at the discretion of the UNL College granting the degree. Information can be found on: http://admissions.unl.edu/nebraska/equivalency.aspx.</dd>
								<dt>Transfer Credit</dt><dd> Credit awarded by a program or postsecondary institution other than the institution at which the student is currently enrolled. At the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, this is any credit not awarded by UNL. </dd>
								<dt>Transfer Guides</dt><dd> An on-line list of suggested courses that may be taken at a specific community college which will transfer and apply toward Achievement Centered Education (ACE) requirements at UNL. Guide can be found at http://ucommxsrv1.unl.edu/dgs_2008/.</dd>
								<dt>Tuition</dt><dd> Charges to a student by the University for registration in credit courses.</dd>
								<dt>Undergraduate Bulletin</dt><dd> The set of rules, regulations, policies, programs, requirements, and courses. This can also be referred to as a catalog. A student is normally bound by the requirements of the bulletin in effect when the student was admitted to the degree college. Each degree college has policies regarding changes to bulletins. The Undergraduate Bulletin can be found at: http://bulletin.unl.edu/undergraduate/.</dd>
								<dt>Upper Level (300 and 400 level)</dt><dd> Less general, more focused courses, usually making up most of the final two years of a bachelors degree. </dd>
								<dt>Vocational or Skill Development Course (VCRD)</dt><dd> Courses designated as vocational or skill development courses not applicable to a UNL degree. </dd>
								<dt>Withdrawal from a Course</dt><dd> To drop from a course after the add/drop deadline in the academic course will result in a "W" on the student’s record. Students can drop a course through MyRED. Grades of a “W” do not affect a student’s GPA, but cannot be removed from transcripts. </dd>
								</dl>
								
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Courses of Instruction</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Subject Area Abbreviations</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The University of Nebraska–Lincoln uses standard abbreviations for academic subject areas and program titles as part of course descriptions. This list can be found by clicking on Course Abbreviations under the Courses tab in the heading.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Abbreviations and Symbols Commonly Used in the Bulletin</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Achievement-Centered Education</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">anly or anlys analysis</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">appl or apps or ap application or applied</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">arr arranged</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">corec corequisite</span><span class="requirement-ital"> (see parallel)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">coreg coregistration</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital"> (denotes taking another class along with the one listed) (see parallel)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">cr or crs credit or credit hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">cr arr credit hours arranged</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">cum cumulative grade point average</span><span class="list-ital"> (see GPA)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">D Extended Education</span><span class="list-ital"> (contract course)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Ed or Educ Education</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">elem elementary</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">F Distance Education-“Field” Class</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">fld field</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">fund or fun fundamentals</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">G graduate</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Grade Point Average</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">grad or Grad graduate</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">H Honors</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">hr or hrs hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">I or inc incomplete</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ind independent</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">intermed intermediate</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">intro or intr introduction</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">L laboratory with credit hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Lab or lab laboratory</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Lec lecture</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">max maximum</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NP or N No Pass credit allowed toward degree</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NR No Report</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">P Pass</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">P/N Pass/No Pass</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PO Pass/No Pass grading option</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">parallel denotes taking another class along with the one listed </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital"> (a corequisite or coregistration)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Prereq or preq prerequisite</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">princ principles</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Pro or prof professional</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PSI Personal System of Instruction</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">quz quiz</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Rec Recreation</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">rct or Reci recitation</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">rsh research</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">S (denotes) Distance Education class</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">sec secondary</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">sem semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">smnr seminar</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Stu or stu studio</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">TBA to be assigned</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">tch teach</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">tchr teacher</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">tchng teaching</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">tech technology or technical</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">UG undergraduate</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">UNL University of Nebraska–Lincoln</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">UNMC University of Nebraska Medical Center</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">UNO University of Nebraska at Omaha</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">W withdrew</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">X College Independent Study course</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">/ and/or</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">&amp; and</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">+ and</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">&gt; greater than</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">&lt; less than</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Course Prerequisites and Corequisites</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Course prerequisites indicate the level of preparation a student must have had to take a given course. Equivalent preparation is generally sufficient. If there is doubt about a student’s preparation level, permission to enroll may be requested from the instructor of the course or from the department chairperson. Academic departments reserve the right to deny admission in a course if the prerequisite has not been completed. Academic departments reserve the right to give permission or waive the prerequisite for any course or to substitute for the prerequisite learning obtained by other means than through the prerequisite course(s). See the Courses of Instruction section for each undergraduate college in this bulletin for official listing of course prerequisites.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The use of the words “parallel”, “corequisite”, or “coregister with” in the prerequisite for a course means that both courses are to be taken simultaneously.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Grading System</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The University uses an A through F grading system. The letter grades with point value (in parentheses) are: A+ (4.0), A (4.0), A- (3.67), B+ (3.33), B (3.0), B- (2.67), C+ (2.33), C (2.0), C- (1.67), D+ (1.33), D (1.0), D- (0.67), and F (0). Grades of W (dropped/withdrew), I (incomplete), P (pass/C or better), and N (no pass) may also be given. W, I, P, and N are not assigned grade points and therefore are not used in computation of a student’s grade point average.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Academic Standards-Institutional Policy</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Probation.</span><span class="generated-style"> A student who receives a semester grade point average (GPA) of less than 2.00 or ends a semester with a cumulative GPA below 2.00 will be placed (or will continue) on probation. The student will remain on probation until a semester is completed with both a semester and cumulative GPA at or above 2.00, or until the student is dismissed.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Academic Dismissal.</span><span class="generated-style"> A student will be dismissed from UNL at the end of any semester* in which the following conditions exist:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">1. Cumulative Credit Hours** 1-18: more than one semester attended and a cumulative grade point average (GPA) below 1.00.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">2. Cumulative Credit Hours 19-45: cumulative GPA below 2.00 at end of prior semester, and both semester and cumulative GPAs are below 1.75 or three consecutive semesters on probation. The unsuccessful semester which places the student on probation is considered the first of the three consecutive semesters on probation.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">3. Cumulative Credit Hours 46 and above: cumulative GPA below 2.00 at end of prior semester, and both semester and cumulative GPAs are below 2.00 or three consecutive semesters on probation.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">* </span><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Course work taken during any of the four summer sessions will be collectively considered as one semester of attendance.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">** </span><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> For the purposes of enforcing academic standards, cumulative credit hours include the following:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">1. Credit hours that a student registered for and did not drop during the first two weeks of the course. These are the courses that are subject to a grade.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">2. All transfer hours presented.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Readmission.</span><span class="generated-style"> A student who has been dismissed from UNL will be denied enrollment privileges for at least two consecutive semesters (the four summer sessions count as one semester). Readmission to UNL is not automatic. A dismissed student may apply for readmission to UNL for the semester following the mandatory “stop-out” period or any subsequent semesters. Applications for readmission will be evaluated by the Office of Admissions in accordance with criteria established by each of the colleges. Decisions regarding specific college readmission will be made by the individual college in which the student seeks to enroll after readmission.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Please see college information for specific standards related to the college. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Honors Convocation Recognition Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Honors Convocation recognition requirements for students entering the University after the Spring Semester 2004 require that those eligible for recognition be in the top ten percent of their college class based on their cumulative grade point average (but with a cumulative GPA no lower than 3.6) and meet the additional requirements stated below.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students whose first college matriculation at UNL (after high school graduation) occurred before June 2004 will be recognized on the basis of recognition requirements in force at that time. This policy will also apply to transfer students from UNO and UNK whose first college matriculation at those institutions preceded the June 2004 implementation of the recognition criteria.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Honors Convocation criteria for students entering the University in the 2004-05 academic year and after are listed below. Students will be recognized only for the highest award for which they qualify.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">High Scholarship. </span><span class="generated-style">Students must be in the top ten percent of their college class based on their cumulative grade point average and meet the following specific requirements:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">1. Required semesters in residence at UNL: juniors and seniors must have completed at least 3 semesters or 42 credit hours at UNL; sophomores must have completed at least 2 semesters or 28 credit hours; freshmen must have completed at least 1 semester or 12 credit hours.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">2. Hours completed first semester: seniors must complete a minimum of 9 hours, of which 6 must be graded A through F. (Student teachers in the College of Education and Human Sciences may be exceptions.) Students graduating in December may take only those hours needed for graduation. Juniors, sophomores, and freshmen must complete a minimum of 12 hours first (fall) semester, at least 9 of which are graded A through F.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Superior Scholarship.</span><span class="generated-style"> Superior scholarship students are seniors graduating between December and August who: 1) meet the requirements for high scholarship for seniors, and 2) are in the upper three percent of the senior class of their college or have been on the UNL Honors Convocation list each year since matriculation as a freshman.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Chancellor’s Scholars.</span><span class="generated-style"> Seniors graduating between December and August qualify for this award if they meet the following criteria.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">1. Graduating seniors must have earned the grade of A in all graded collegiate work at UNL and at other institutions and a grade of P for all classes taken in the Pass/No Pass grading option (excluding foreign study and collegiate work taken prior to the student’s graduation from high school. The student must request the exclusion of a grade taken prior to graduation from high school and the re-calculation of the GPA in writing to the University Honors Program, 118 NRC, 0659, by March 1). At least 42 graded semester hours must have been earned at UNL by the end of first (fall) semester of the academic year of graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">2. During first semester, a student must complete a minimum of 9 total hours with no more than 3 hours of Pass/No Pass course work. (Student teachers in the College of Education and Human Sciences may be exceptions.) Students graduating in December may take only those hours needed for graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">General Information for Honors.</span><span class="generated-style"> Students with grade changes or students finishing incompletes after January 1 should contact the Office of the University Honors Program to see that these changes have been recorded.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All grades are averaged in figuring cumulative GPA. Students repeating a class to remove C-, D, or F grades will have both the original and the repeat grade used to calculate GPA.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Only those seniors recognized as Superior Scholars and Chancellor’s Scholars (see above) need to order caps and gowns for the Honors Convocation ceremonies. The Honors Convocation invitation will give appropriate instructions.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Only University of Nebraska system grades are used to compute the GPA for Honors. For computing the GPA for Honors, a student may request the exclusion of a University of Nebraska system grade earned in a course taken prior to graduation from high school. This request for a re-calculation of the GPA must be made in writing to the University Honors Program, 118 NRC, 0659, prior to March 1. UNL, UNO, UNK, and UNMC students are considered resident students.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Each college also has their own recognition.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Recognition of Outstanding Academic Achievement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition to providing qualified students with an opportunity to enrich their academic programs by taking honors courses, the University and its colleges recognize the academic achievements of all their talented and dedicated students.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">The Honors Convocation: University and Chancellor’s Scholars</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In April of each year, the Chancellor hosts the All-University Honors Convocation at which students who meet recognition requirements are honored as University Scholars. Special recognition is given to Chancellor’s Scholars, graduating seniors who have maintained a perfect 4.0 grade point in all their collegiate work.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">The Dean’s List: College Scholars</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each semester, the eight undergraduate colleges identify students who perform at a superior level academically by recording their names on the Dean’s List of the respective colleges. These College Scholars have earned at least a B+ average in a specified number of courses (the standard varies from college to college) during the semester for which they are recognized.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Graduation with Distinction in UNL’s Undergraduate Colleges</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The colleges also praise their most successful students by recommending them for graduation with distinction, high distinction or highest distinction. While the manner of selection varies from college to college, all graduates with a level of distinction upon graduation have earned the respect of both the university community and the larger society they are about to join. Acknowledgment of such achievement is made publicly at commencement and, of course, is indicated on the student’s diploma.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Departmental Honors</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Many academic departments offer honors courses and provide high-ability students with special research opportunities. Students who do not participate in the University Honors Program may request permission to register for an honors course from the course instructor or the department office. Refer to college and departmental listings in this bulletin for further information or contact the University Honors Program Office.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Grading Policies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">University faculty members are expected to inform students early in the semester of course objectives, requirements, standards, and grading procedures for the particular course. In addition, they should make clear their individual policies regarding the Pass/No Pass grading option and the assignment of I (incomplete) grades. Failure of any faculty member to inform students of special restrictions in these areas could be grounds for a grade appeal case. Grade appeal procedures exist in all UNL undergraduate colleges (see Grade Appeals in individual undergraduate college sections of this bulletin).</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Grading Option</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Pass/No Pass grading option was designed to enable students to take courses in areas of interest where they may feel they have had minimal preparation without adversely affecting their grade point average. Grades of P (pass) are interpreted as a grade of C or better. Neither grade P or N (no pass) contributes to the grade point average.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">There are collegiate restrictions on the use of this grading option. Students should see Pass/No Pass in individual undergraduate college sections of this bulletin, see the Schedule of Classes, and talk with their academic advisers concerning the use of this option.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Grades of Incomplete</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The grade I is used by an instructor at the end of a term to designate incomplete work in a course. It should be used only when students are unable to complete the requirements of the course in the term in which they are registered because of illness, military service, hardship, or death in the immediate family. Incompletes should only be given if the student has already substantially completed the major requirements of the course.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For complete procedures and regulations, see the Schedule of Classes.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Course Repeat Policy</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Only the most recent letter grade received in a given course will be used in computing a student’s cumulative grade point average if the student has completed the course more than once and previously received a grade or grades below C in that course.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The previous grade (or grades) will not be used in computation of the cumulative grade point average, but it will remain a part of the academic record and will appear on any transcript.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student can remove from his/her cumulative average a course grade of C-, D+, D, D-, or F if the student repeats the equivalent course at the University of Nebraska and receives a grade other than P (pass), I (incomplete), N (no pass), W (withdrew), or NR (no report). If a course is no longer being offered, it is not eligible for the removal process.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For complete procedures and regulations, see the Schedule of Classes.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Automatic Removal of Grade Factors From Cumulative GPA For Repeated Courses</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Courses graded A+ to F for the current semester are checked against all courses taken since the installation of the computerized records system (September, 1986) and grade factors are automatically subtracted for repeated courses originally graded C-, D+, D, D-, or F.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Exceptions to Automatic Grade Factor Removal Processing</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Independent study courses, special topics courses and variable credit hour courses will not be processed automatically. These courses will be identified to the Registrar’s Office to check the C-, D+, D, D- or F status manually. Any of these courses that qualify for removal will be processed manually by the Registrar’s Office. The student will be notified of the change by a Grade Notification letter.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Students must complete an “Undergraduate Course Repeat Re-Computation Request” for the following situations:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">1. Repeated courses that were first taken prior to the First Semester 1986-87.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">2. UNMC, UNO, UNK equivalent course.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">3. Late grades or grade changes after the grade census date (approximately three weeks after the end of the term).</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">4. Cross-listed courses (i.e., FINA 365/ECON 365).</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Requests for course repeat(s) processing for these exception-type situations are available at, and must be submitted to the Office of the University Registrar, 107 Canfield Administration Building, approximately three weeks after the end of the term. Removals processed during this revision period will be reflected in the official (census date) cumulative grade point average. Students not meeting this deadline will be notified of the change approximately two weeks after the request is received. Late changes will not be reflected in the official (census date) cumulative grade point average.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Academic Bankruptcy</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student may remove one or two complete semesters of work from their cumulative grade point average and degree consideration by applying to the Office of the University Registrar for academic bankruptcy. To qualify, a student must have completed either 15 simultaneous or sequential credit hours with a minimum 3.0 grade point average or 30 hours with a minimum 2.5 grade point average at UNL following the semester(s) the student wishes to remove.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In order to declare a semester bankrupt, all courses taken during the semester are bankrupt (both credit hours and grades). The bankrupt semester is removed from consideration for cumulative grade point average purposes and the bankrupt credit is not used for degree requirements. The semester listing of courses and grades remain evident on the academic record which is used to issue transcripts. A student may not bankrupt a semester after receiving a baccalaureate degree. College Independent Study via On-line and Distance Education is not included in computing qualifying grade point averages; P grades may not be used to meet bankruptcy requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For complete procedures and regulations, see the Schedule of Classes.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Advanced Placement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In order to help students gain credit by advanced standing, the University provides opportunities for advanced placement. UNL participates in the Advanced Placement Program (AP) of the College Entrance Examination Board and the College Level Examination Program (CLEP). Students can obtain detailed information on acceptable courses from the Office of Admissions.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Credit by Examination</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Some currently-enrolled students, through outside study or relevant experience, may feel prepared to demonstrate that they have attained the knowledge and/or skills required to pass a particular UNL course. As an alternative to enrolling in the course, such students may elect to take a proficiency exam which tests for mastery of the course material. If a student scores satisfactorily on the examination, the student may be awarded credit for the course. Students can obtain detailed information from the dean’s office of their college.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Graduation Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">General Education Requirements (ACE)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">First-year students who begin matriculation at UNL in fall 2009 are required to complete the new general education requirements for the Achievement–Centered Education (ACE) Program.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">It is anticipated that UNL students matriculating prior to fall 2009 will continue to complete the CEP General Education Program requirements as designated by the bulletin year in which the student started his or her UNL college program. Students who transfer to UNL as of fall 2009 may elect to complete their program under the CEP General Education Program requirements. See academic advisers for more information.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Achievement-Centered Education (ACE)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Consistent with the mission and values of the University, ACE is based on a shared set of four institutional objectives and 10 student learning outcomes.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Institutional Objectives and Student Learning Outcomes</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To meet the ACE Program requirement, a student will complete the equivalent of 3 credit hours for each of the following ten ACE Student Learning Outcomes (a total of 30 ACE credit hours):</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Institutional Objective 1:</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Develop intellectual and practical skills, including proficiency in written, oral, and visual communication; inquiry techniques; critical and creative thinking; quantitative applications; information assessment; teamwork; and problem-solving.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 1:</span><span class="generated-style"> Write texts, in various forms, with an identified purpose, that respond to specific audience needs, incorporate research or existing knowledge, and use applicable documentation and appropriate conventions of format and structure.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 2:</span><span class="generated-style"> Demonstrate communication competence in one or more of the following ways: (a) by making oral presentations with supporting materials, (b) by leading and participating in problem-solving teams, (c) by employing a repertoire of communication skills for developing and maintaining professional and personal relationships, or (d) by creating and interpreting visual information.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 3: </span><span class="generated-style">Use mathematical, computational, statistical, or formal reasoning (including reasoning based on principles of logic) to solve problems, draw inferences, and determine reasonableness.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Institutional Objective 2:</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Build knowledge of diverse peoples and cultures and of the natural and physical world through the study of mathematics, sciences and technologies, histories, humanities, arts, social sciences, and human diversity.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 4:</span><span class="generated-style"> Use scientific methods and knowledge of the natural and physical world to address problems through inquiry, interpretation, analysis, and the making of inferences from data, to determine whether conclusions or solutions are reasonable.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 5: </span><span class="generated-style">Use knowledge, historical perspectives, analysis, interpretation, critical evaluation, and the standards of evidence appropriate to the humanities to address problems and issues.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 6:</span><span class="generated-style"> Use knowledge, theories, methods, and historical perspectives appropriate to the social sciences to understand and evaluate human behavior.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 7:</span><span class="generated-style"> Use knowledge, theories, or methods appropriate to the arts to understand their context and significance.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Institutional Objective 3:</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Exercise individual and social responsibilities through the study of ethical principles and reasoning, application of civic knowledge, interaction with diverse cultures, and engagement with global issues.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 8:</span><span class="generated-style"> Explain ethical principles, civics, and stewardship, and their importance to society.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 9:</span><span class="generated-style"> Exhibit global awareness or knowledge of human diversity through analysis of an issue.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Institutional Objective 4:</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Integrate these abilities and capacities, adapting them to new settings, questions, and responsibilities.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">ACE 10:</span><span class="generated-style"> Generate a creative or scholarly product that requires broad knowledge, appropriate technical proficiency, information collection, synthesis, interpretation, presentation, and reflection.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Structural Criteria</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Graduates of the University of Nebraska–Lincoln will satisfy the requirements of their majors, their colleges, and the ACE Program.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">1. ACE courses are credit-bearing curricular offerings or equivalent documented co-curricular experiences.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">2. The ACE Program will consist of the equivalent of 3 credit hours for each of the ten ACE Student Learning Outcomes.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">3. Any ACE course approved to satisfy an ACE Student Learning Outcome satisfies that Student Learning Outcome in all UNL undergraduate colleges.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">4. Up to three ACE Student Learning Outcomes 4-10 may be satisfied by work in one subject area.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">5. ACE Student Learning Outcomes must be satisfied by work in at least three subject areas.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">6. No ACE course may satisfy more than one ACE Student Learning Outcome in a student’s program.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">7. If an ACE course addressed two ACE Student Learning Outcomes, the student decides which one of the two Outcomes the course will satisfy in that student’s program.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">8. Every ACE course will reinforce at least one of the following as appropriate for the discipline and as identified by the department offering the course: Writing, Oral Communication, Visual Literacy, Historical Perspectives, Mathematics and Statistics, Critical Thinking, Teamwork, Problem Solving, Ethics, Civics, Social Responsibility, Global Awareness, or Human Diversity.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">ACE courses are identified in course descriptions by the ACE symbol followed by the Student Learning Outcome number(s) that they fulfill. See the ACE website at: http://ace.unl.edu for the most current information and the most recently certified courses.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Graduate Studies</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Admission of UNL Seniors</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Seniors at UNL needing not more than 9 undergraduate credit hours to complete the bachelors degree and wishing to register for graduate credit may be granted admission to a Graduate College degree program on a provisional basis subject to receiving their baccalaureates within one calendar year. They must file an application for admission to Graduate Studies and, if admitted, their registration may count as residence in the Graduate College.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Graduate Courses Taken by UNL Seniors</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">UNL seniors who have obtained in advance the approval of the Dean of Graduate Studies may enroll in up to 12 hours credit for graduate courses taken in addition to the courses necessary to complete their undergraduate work, provided that such credits are earned within the calendar year prior to receipt of the baccalaureate.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Course work taken prior to receipt of the baccalaureate may not always be accepted for transfer to other institutions as graduate work.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Seniors in the University Honors Program are encouraged to consider taking 400/800-level courses at the 800 level with the concurrence of their adviser and permission of the instructor and Dean of Graduate Studies.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Please contact the Office of Graduate Studies, 1100 Seaton Hall, prior to registering for graduate course work. Completion of a Hold for Graduate Credit Form is required.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">SPECIAL ACADEMIC PROGRAMS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Special Undergraduate Programs</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Professional Studies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition to undergraduate programs leading to a bachelors degree, several UNL colleges offer pre-professional programs of study designed to prepare students for advanced training or professional study after graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">These are not programs with a predetermined outline of courses leading to a degree in a specific professional field. Rather, with careful planning and an adviser’s assistance, students build a degree program designed to enhance knowledge in areas relevant to future professional work.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students can obtain advising and courses for pre-professional studies from three undergraduate colleges at the University. The College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources offers preforestry and preveterinary medicine; the College of Architecture offers prearchitecture and preinterior design; the College of Arts and Sciences offers preparation in prechiropractic, preclinical perfusion science, precytotechnology, predental hygiene, predentistry, prelaw, premedical technology, premedicine, premortuary science, prenuclear medicine technology, preoccupational therapy, preoptometry, prepharmacy, prephysical therapy, prephysician’s assistant, preradiologic technology, and preseminary/theology information.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students can develop a prelaw program in any of UNL’s undergraduate colleges, but they should choose their courses carefully beginning their freshman year.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">University Honors Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The University Honors Program is a special program for which formal application is required. Students admitted to the Program have ACT composite scores in the upper 20s or above, are in the top ten percent of their high school class and, most importantly, have demonstrated a commitment to intellectual curiosity and academic excellence. Acceptance into the Program is based on a comprehensive evaluation of the student’s potential by the Honors Program Faculty Committee. All the undergraduate colleges support the Program, and honors courses apply to college and major requirements. A special notation is made on the transcript and diploma upon graduation from the University Honors Program to inform graduate schools and employers of the student’s superior performance. Honors Program students may request housing in the honors residence, the Neihardt Residence Center.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students admitted to the Honors Program in their first year of college must fulfill the following requirements in order to complete the Program:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="basic-text-bold">A.</span><span class="generated-style"> Full-time student: 12 credit hours each semester (fall and spring)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="basic-text-bold">B.</span><span class="generated-style"> Cumulative GPA: 3.5</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="basic-text-bold">C.</span><span class="generated-style"> 24 credit hours in honors courses with a grade of B or better: to include 189H and 395H</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="basic-text-bold">D.</span><span class="generated-style"> Sequence:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-underline">First and Second years</span><span class="generated-style">:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-4"><span class="generated-style">Complete 15 honors credit hours with a grade of B or better in the first four semesters of college work including 189H and file a Statement of Academic Interest.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-4"><span class="generated-style">Complete at least 6 honors credit hours with a grade of B or better each year (Fall and/or Spring).</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-underline">Third and Fourth years</span><span class="generated-style">:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-4"><span class="generated-style">Complete 9 honors credit hours with a grade of B or better in the junior and senior years, including 395H.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-4"><span class="generated-style">File a Memorandum of Study (research prospectus) prior to completing 100 hours.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-4"><span class="generated-style">Complete at least 3 honors credit hours with a grade of B or better each year (Fall or Spring)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="basic-text-bold">E.</span><span class="generated-style"> Completion of an honors research or creative project (e.g., thesis).</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students admitted to the Program having earned college credits after high school graduation either at the University of Nebraska or another school should discuss modified requirements with the Honors Program director.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Managementt develops leaders for a technology-driven world. Graduates will be professionals who understand the multiple levels of new information systems, and who become the technology sector’s innovators, product developers, entrepreneurs, chief information officers, and CEOs.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The undergraduate program is designed to give students a strong well-rounded education and to give them not only the ability to create information technology applications and solutions, but also the capacity to understand the implications of information technology for business and society. The program produces graduates with high technical proficiency as well as a strong sense of the business problems and organizational needs that information systems are intended to serve.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students interested in learning more about the Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management are encouraged to call the Program at 402-472-6000 or visit the Program website at raikes.unl.edu.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
