<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Actuarial Science (CBA)</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="actuarial-science-cba-">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Actuarial Science (CBA)</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Actuarial Science (CBA)</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 hours for degree (28 hours for the major) </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.5 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Warren Luckner, Sue Vagts</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice and Director: Warren Luckner</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Ramsay</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Mashayekhi</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Vagts</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">An actuary is a mathematically-oriented business person who will most likely be a manager or supervisor at some point in his/her career. Thus, a course of study culminating in a bachelor of science degree in business administration with a major in actuarial science is an excellent educational background for prospective actuaries. Additional information is available at www.BeAnActuary.org.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The actuarial science program is designed to prepare students for the current industry demands. Because the demands change on a regular basis, often times, the number of hours, the sequencing of courses, and the specific requirements change for this major. Students should continue to consult with the department for the appropriate selection and listing of course requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The actuarial science program is proud to have been named one of the first Centers of Actuarial Excellence by the Society of Actuaries.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All actuarial science students are encouraged to visit the actuarial science program’s Web site (http://cba.unl.edu/academics/actuarial/) and an actuarial science program faculty adviser for more information about the program, including the Actuarial Science Club, sequencing of courses, scholarship opportunities, and the requirements for achieving professional actuarial designations.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition, because of the mathematical orientation for this program, actuarial science majors are required to make some modifications to the degree program requirements. These requirements (with a reminder that all required course work must be taken for a grade) are noted below.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Major/Department Admission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University Admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style"> In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 28 hours of course work for the major.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">As noted in the College Degree Requirements section, all course work for the major must be taken for a grade. Actuarial science majors must take MATH 106, MATH 107, and MATH 208, as well as CSCE 101 &amp; CSCE 101L.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">These hours have been built into the College Degree Requirements as part of the Non-Business Requirements (NBR).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ACTS 399/499 may not count toward the major or minor in actuarial science.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Other College Degree Requirement changes for actuarial science majors includes:</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">ACTS majors must take STAT 380 in place of ECON 215 for the Business Core Foundation (BCF) requirements.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">ACTS majors will also take STAT 462 &amp; STAT 463 Introduction to Mathematical Statistics I &amp; II for the Business Core Foundation (BCF) requirements.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">ACTS majors will take FINA 461 Advanced Finance in place of FINA 361 for the Business Core Intermediate (BCI) requirements; the prerequisite of FINA 361 (for FINA 363 and FINA 461) is satisfied with completion of ACTS 440.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">12 hours of 300/400-level elective course work is NOT required for actuarial science majors. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">As part of the college </span><span class="basic-text-bold">elective</span><span class="generated-style"> requirements, all students complete ONE business elective course for the program. ACTS majors are WAIVED from this specific requirement; however, all ACTS majors must take an IBCR course and thus, this can be done to meet the business elective requirement. The department suggests FINA 450 International Financial Management be taken to meet the requirement. An alternative option is to take ECON 321 or MNGT 428 as part of NBR 6–ACE 9 which then double counts for both the NBR 6 and IBCR requirement. </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for students interested in pursuing the bachelor of science degree with a major in actuarial science will complete 28 hours of actuarial science course work for the Business Core Advanced-Major (BCA-M): </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACTS 430 Actuarial Applications of Applied Statistics </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACTS 440 Financial Mathematics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACTS 470 Life Contingencies I </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACTS 471 Life Contingencies II </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACTS 473 Intro to Risk Theory</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACTS 475 Actuarial Applications in Practice</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FINA 307 Principles of Individual Risk Management &amp; Insurance </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> FINA 338 Principles of Corporate Risk Management</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FINA 363 Investment Principles</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="list-ital">Choose one of the following:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACTS 410 Intro to Credibility, Smoothing of Data &amp; Simulation</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACTS 425 Survival Models</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACTS 450 Stochastic Processes for Actuaries</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FINA 467 Options, Futures &amp; Derivative Securities</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">In addition to the 28 hours for the major, ACTS majors are also encouraged to take:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Actuarial science problem labs as appropriate </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">MATH 314 Applied Linear Algebra, MATH 221 Differential Equations</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">At least one of FINA 412, FINA 420, FINA 438, or ECON 413</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style"> While not required, actuarial science majors may double major in finance. The finance department allows double counting of courses for students choosing to obtain a double major in actuarial science and finance. </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Actuarial Science and Finance Double Majors </span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Take the Core Finance Requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Choose ONE of the four options available. Students may select only ONE option to complete.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list-2"><span class="generated-style">a. If choosing the General Finance Option, double majors must take FINA 375 Financial Statement Analysis, and cannot take FINA 307 as a finance elective</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list-3"><span class="generated-style">i. Also, consider choosing FINA 450 as one of the 400-level options to meet the requirement for the major as well as a requirement for the IBCR.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list-2"><span class="generated-style">b. For all other options within the finance major, the required and elective finance courses are the same as those of a student obtaining just the finance major. </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Finance Minor</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Actuarial students may double count their finance courses towards a finance minor. They will follow the regular minor found in the finance section of the Bulletin. The courses used might include:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FINA 363</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FINA 507 or FINA 338</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FINA 450 or FINA 467 or FINA 412 or FINA 420 or FINA 438</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FINA 365/ECON 365</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">C- and D Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College grade rules.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College Pass/No Pass limits.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College GPA requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Actuarial Science Minor</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To fulfill the requirements for an actuarial science minor, students must complete:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Twelve (12) graded hours of actuarial science course work; ACTS 440, ACTS 470, ACTS 471, and ACTS 473 are recommended.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">(no Pass/No Pass)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">ACTS 399 may not be used toward the minor (or major).</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Actuarial Science Major</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All course work for the major must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass).</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Substitutions When Changing Majors</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">If ACTS students change to a different major in the College of Business Administration, the following substitutions may be made.</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACTS 440 for FINA 361</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">STAT 380 for ECON 215</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
