<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Advertising &amp; Public Relations</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="advertising-public-relations">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Advertising &amp; Public Relations</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Journalism &amp; Mass Communications</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Advertising &amp; Public Relations</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Journalism</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Michael Goff</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> N. Mitchell, Shipley</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Brown, Hachtmann, Struthers, </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Lauerman, Peon-Casanova, Willet</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Senior Lecturers:</span><span class="generated-style"> Goff, James, Larsen</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturers:</span><span class="generated-style"> R. B. Mitchell, Tidball, Wagler</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The advertising and public relations major prepares students for careers in a wide variety of communication-related areas. Recent graduates have been placed in more than 20 states and several other countries in diverse advertising careers such as retail and corporate advertising and marketing, media sales, brand management, media planning, account management, research, public relations, media relations, special event planning, Internet communications, copywriting and layout and design.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The advertising faculty believes that a successful career must be built upon a solid foundation, an education that combines theory and practice. To achieve that end, the major offers courses in copywriting, layout, media planning, graphics, campaign development, research, management, and strategic communications. The curriculum is designed to emphasize strategy, planning and implementation in creative problem solving.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Much emphasis is placed on individual relationships between faculty and students, an interaction vital to a student’s creative development. A faculty adviser also helps each student tailor an academic plan to meet his or her interests and needs.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In advertising and strategic communications classes, students often work with actual clients who present real-life problems. This experience gives students a professional perspective on problem solving in many sectors including nonprofit, retail, small business and community organizations as well as large corporations. Students are encouraged to augment their academic experience with internships.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The faculty, with many professional contacts both locally and nationwide, actively help place students in jobs within the state and throughout the country. Students interested in majoring in advertising and public relations should contact the college office in 147 Andersen Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The major is 38 hours in advertising and public relations.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The courses required for a major in advertising and public relations are as follows:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ADPR 251, ADPR 283, and either ADPR 439 or ADPR 489; JOMC 101, JOMC 162, JOMC 163, JOMC 164, JOMC 165, JOMC 486, JOMC 487; and 12 elective hours</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The 12 elective hours comprise three optional tracks. Students may complete a track leading to account services or to creative/interactive or to public relations. Students also may select the elective courses from multiple tracks to provide a broad background.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The account services track includes the following: ADPR 357, ADPR 360, ADPR 434, ADPR 439, ADPR 481, and ADPR 484.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The creative/interactive track includes the following: ADPR 323, ADPR 333, ADPR 433, ADPR 447, ADPR 458, ADPR 459, and ADPR 483. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The public relations track includes the following: JOUR 201, JOUR 202, ADPR 207, ADPR 417, ADPR 450, and ADPR 451.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">All tracks include the following: ADPR 491 or JOUR 491, ADPR 495, and ADPR 499H.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Students may complete two majors in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications by completing all requirements for each major; however, the second major in the college will not take the place of a concentration or any of the 80 hours required outside the college.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
