<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Aerospace Studies Minor</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="aerospace-studies-minor">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Aerospace Studies Minor</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Aerospace Studies (Minor only)</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Minor only</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 18</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Lt Col. Stephen Gibson</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Department of Aerospace Studies: Lt Colonel Stephen Gibson,</span><span class="generated-style"> U.S. Air Force, Professor of Aerospace Studies, 209 Military and Naval Science Building</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Air Force ROTC</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The preparation of future Air Force officers is provided through the Air Force ROTC (AFROTC) program. Enrollment is open to any student attending the University on a full-time basis. The curriculum provides the individual with a firm understanding of the concepts of aerospace power and the Air Force mission, organization and operations.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Enrollment in AFROTC is voluntary and accomplished through the fall and spring registration periods. Scholarships are available on a competitive basis. Approximately fifty percent of the students hold scholarships.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">General Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Air Force ROTC program consists of the General Military Course (GMC) during the freshman and sophomore years and the Professional Officer Course (POC) for the remaining years. All GMC cadets must complete a four-week field training session during the summer between their sophomore and junior years to enter the POC. Field training is a competitively selected process, and all students wishing to pursue a commission through AFROTC must attend field training.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minor in Aerospace Studies (Joint Military Studies)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The minor in aerospace studies is offered to any student completing the courses of study listed below. The minor not only prepares cadets for active duty service but provides any student the opportunity to study one of our country’s major instruments of power, the United States Military. In addition to studying Air Force organizations, missions and operations, the student will gain a broad perspective of the military in general by studying the history of all Department of Defense Services, thus emphasizing our country’s focus on Joint Military Operations.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Requirements (18 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. AERO 331, AERO 332, AERO 441, AERO 442 (total 12 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. 3 cr from the following: MNGT 320, MNGT 360, MNGT 361, MNGT 428, MNGT 464, MNGT 465, or MNGT 466</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. 3 cr from the following: HIST 303, HIST 304; GEOG 272; POLS 160, POLS 260, POLS 360, POLS 363, POLS 462</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Active Duty Obligation</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">There is no active duty obligation for enrolling in any AFROTC courses, unless a student wishes to become an Active Duty Air Force Officer or accepts an Air Force scholarship. Students who complete the Air Force ROTC program and receive a commission, incur a four-year active duty commitment. Flying officers serve additional commitments from the time they complete their training.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
