<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Agricultural Journalism</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="agricultural-journalism">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name">Agricultural Journalism</p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR: </span>Agricultural Journalism</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Journalism</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Karen J. Cannon</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor:</span> Terry</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span> Cannon</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors of Practice:</span> Alberts, Garbacz, Harms, Jasa, Johnson, Karstens, Mills, Moser, Nelson, Peters, Singh</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Advising:</span> Cannon, Terry, Department of Agricultural Leadership, Education and Communication; 108 Agricultural Communications Building</p>
				<p class="basic-text">This degree program is designed to prepare students for careers in journalism and mass communications. The degree gives the student a broad education. Graduates are also qualified to pursue careers in journalism and public relations that do not deal with agriculture or natural resources.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Students will complete the Advertising, Broadcasting, or News-Editorial sequence in Journalism and the Agricultural Journalism core. Students may select one of three areas of emphasis within the agricultural journalism degree program: 1) Agricultural and Natural Resources Policy, 2) Production Agriculture, or 3) Agricultural and Natural Resources Public Relations.</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The general education requirements give the student a well-rounded introduction to science, communications, humanities and social sciences. The Agricultural Journalism core provides an introduction to the degree content areas a journalist or advertising and public relations professional should know including leadership development. The journalism core is offered through the College of Journalism and Mass Communications, which is an accredited program.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1">Core Requirements</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">College Core Requirements 40-41</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">College Integrative Courses 6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRI 103/NRES 103 Intro to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 480 Dynamics of Agricultural Environmental Journalism (Capstone) <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 10)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Mathematics and Statistics (beyond college algebra)<span class="requirement-sec-1-italic"> (ACE 3)</span> 5</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> MATH 102, MATH 103, MATH 104, MATH 106, and STAT 218</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> Proficiency at the college algebra level must be demonstrated either by a placement exam or through course work. If MATH 103 is taken, only 2 credit hours can be counted toward this requirement.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Communications 6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Written Communication <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 1)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> ENGL 150, ENGL 151, ENGL 254; JGEN 120, JGEN 200, JGEN 220, JGEN 300</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Communications &amp; Interpersonal Skills electives <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span> ALEC 102; COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 286</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Natural Sciences<span class="requirement-sec-1-italic"> (ACE 4)</span> 8-9</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select two courses from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">CASNR Approved Life Science Course (4 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or </span>CHEM 105 Chemistry in Context I (4 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 109 General Chemistry I (4 cr) <span class="requirement-bold">or </span>MSYM 109 Physical Principles in Agriculture &amp; Life Sciences (4 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHYS 141 Elementary General Physics I (5 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHYS 151 Elements of Physics (4 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHYS 211 General Physics I (4 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Economics, Humanities and Social Sciences 15</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Economics: ECON 211 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ECON 212 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> AECN 141<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 6)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Humanities<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 5)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Arts<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 7)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Ethics<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 8)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Global Awareness &amp; Diversity<span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 9)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
				<p class="title-2">Journalism Sequence Courses</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Core courses 23-24</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JOMC 101 Principles of Mass Media 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JOMC 165 Visual &amp; Aural Literacy: Multimedia 2</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JOMC 162 Visual &amp; Aural Literacy: Photography 2</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JOMC 163 Visual &amp; Aural Literacy: Videography 2</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JOMC 164 Visual &amp; Aural Literacy: Graphic Design 2</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ADPR 251 Principles of Strategic Communications 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span> 3-4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">JOUR 201 Editing I (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">JOUR 202 Reporting I (4 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BRDC 226 Intro to Broadcasting 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">JOMC 486 Mass Media Law (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">JOMC 487 Mass Media &amp; Society (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="title-3">Pick one of three emphasis areas:</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Advertising and Public Relations 12</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ADPR 283 Writing for Strategic Communications 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ADPR 333 Strategic Communications Graphics 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ADPR 357 Strategic Communications Research &amp; Strategy 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ADPR 360 Media Planning &amp; Strategy 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Broadcasting 12</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BRDC 227 Principles of Audio Production 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select three of the following courses</span><span class="list-ital">:</span> 9</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BRDC 228 Television Production (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BRDC 269 Field Video Production (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BRDC 360 Broadcast Writing (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">BRDC 370 Broadcast News Writing (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Journalism (News) 12</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JOUR 302 Reporting II 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JOUR 303 Editing II 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JOUR 324 Feature Reporting 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JOMC 444 Science Writing 3</p>
				<p class="title-2">Agricultural Leadership Courses</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Required ALEC Core Courses 9</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 134 Agricultural Education, Journalism, &amp; Leadership Careers 2</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 135 Early Field Experience in Agricultural Leadership, Education &amp; Communication 1</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 207 Communicating to Public Audiences 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 495B Internship in Agricultural Journalism 3</p>
				<p class="title-2">Agricultural Science Courses</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Required CASNR Courses 18</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select courses from a </span><span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">minimum</span><span class="requirement-ital"> of two (2) and a </span><span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">maximum</span><span class="requirement-ital"> of three (3) CASNR programs.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements </p>
				<p class="title-2">Student must select one of four options.</p>
				<p class="title-2">Agricultural and Natural Resources Policy Option</p>
				<p class="basic-text">For students who are interested in the policies and issues surrounding agriculture, natural resources and the environment. These students will find careers in mass media, nonprofit and governmental agencies that focus on policies and issues.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Agriculture &amp; Natural Resources Policy Option 15</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">AECN 265 Resource &amp; Environmental Economics I 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">AECN 357 Natural Resource &amp; Environmental Law 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">AECN 457 Water Law 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">NRES 323 Natural Resources Policy 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Free Electives (CASNR) 3</p>
				<p class="title-2">Production Agriculture Option</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Students will focus on the food system. They will be prepared for careers in mass media, agricultural industry, nonprofit and governmental agencies that deal with the research and production of the food supply.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Option A 16</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRO 315 Genetics 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a 300-level or above course from each of the following areas</span> 12</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">Animal Science 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">Plant Science 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">Agricultural Economics 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">Electives from CASNR Courses 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Option B 12-20</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one of the following CASNR minors:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">Agribusiness</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">Agronomy</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">Animal Science</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">Food Science &amp; Technology</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">Grassland Ecology &amp; Management</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">Horticulture</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">Mechanized Systems Management</p>
				<p class="title-2">Agricultural and Natural Resources Public Relations Option</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Prepares students to have careers promoting agriculture, agricultural products, natural resources and the environment. Careers can be found in mass media, public relations, advertising firms and corporations handling agricultural, natural resources and environmental accounts. Careers also can be found in nonprofit organizations and governmental agencies.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Agricultural &amp; Natural Resources Public Relations Option 15</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ADPR 283* Writing for Strategic Communications 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ADPR 357* Strategic Communications Research &amp; Strategy 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 417 Issues Management &amp; Crisis Communications in Agriculture 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select two from the following:</span> 6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ADPR 450 Public Relations Theory, Strategy &amp; Management (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ADPR 451 Advertising &amp; Public Relations Techniques (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ADPR 459 Advertising &amp; Public Relations in the Electronic Media (3 cr)</p>
				<p class="asterisk">*Since these courses are in the advertising and public relations core, students in advertising and public relations will take 6 elective hours in journalism to complete this option.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Free Electives 0-6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Minimum Credit Hours Required for Graduation 120</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1"> Grade Rules </p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">Must maintain an overall grade point average (GPA) of 2.75 or above.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">All courses are to be taken for a grade rather than Pass/No Pass.</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1">Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">Complete 400-hour internship (full-time, summer) for ALEC 480 requirement.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Internship can be paid or unpaid experience.</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
