<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Animal Science</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="animal-science">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Animal Science</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Animal Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Animal Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span><span class="generated-style"> 2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Dennis Brink</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Head: Larry Berger,</span><span class="generated-style"> Department of Animal Science, C203 Animal Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Berger, Brink, Burson, Calkins, Erickson, Johnson, Jones, Klopfenstein, Mandigo, Miller, Nielsen, Rasby, Scheideler, VanVleck</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Anderson, Cupp, Reese, Reiling, White</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Burkey, Ciobanu, Karr-Lilienthal, Kononoff, Spangler, Wood</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturer:</span><span class="generated-style"> Ellicott</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator for Undergraduate Research:</span><span class="generated-style"> Nielsen</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The field of animal science encompasses the sciences related to animals and their contributions and interactions with humans. This program is designed particularly for students who are interested in pursuing careers associated with the livestock, poultry, meat and companion animal industries. The core curriculum gives students a balanced education in animal science, biological sciences, physical sciences, mathematics, communications, and humanities and social sciences.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each animal science student studies a core curriculum that provides a comprehensive look at animal biological systems, use of animal products, and current issues and careers in the animal industries. In addition to the core, there are seven different options from which students can choose an area of focus which meets their own individual interests and career objectives. These options include: Animal Biology; Animal Production and Management; Business; Companion Animal Science; Equine Sciences; Meat Science; and Veterinary Animal Sciences.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students interested in any aspect of poultry science or avian biology may earn up to 24 credits through the Midwest Poultry Consortium’s Undergraduate Center of Excellence at Madison, WI. The credits may be applied toward an animal science degree from the University of Nebraska. Further details are available from the Animal Science Department.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students pursuing a DVM degree at an accredited college of veterinary medicine may obtain a BS degree in animal science, granted by the University of Nebraska, upon satisfactory completion of the first two years of the curriculum in veterinary medicine. To be eligible, students must have completed at least 90 credit hours of pre-professional courses with 20 credit hours in animal science courses at the University of Nebraska. Further details are available from the Animal Science Department.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Major Core Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The following basic courses are required for majors in animal science. In addition, students must select and meet the requirements of one of the animal science options, depending on their own individual interests and career objectives.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">College Integrative Courses 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGRI 103/NRES 103 Intro to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Departmental Requirements 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 100 Fundamentals of Animal Biology &amp; Industry 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 101 Intro to Animal Sciences 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 240 Anatomy &amp; Physiology of Domestic Animals 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 320 Animal Nutrition &amp; Feeding 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 491 Animal Science Seminar 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Capstone Course </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 10)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 451 Livestock Management on Range &amp; Pasture (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 485 Animal Systems Analysis (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 486 Animal Biological Systems (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences</span><span class="requirement-sec-1-italic"> (ACE 4)</span><span class="generated-style"> 8</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGRO 315 Genetics or BIOS 206 General Genetics 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CASNR Approved Life Sciences</span><span class="requirement-ital"> (select one from):</span><span class="generated-style"> 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 102 Cell Structure &amp; Function (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 103 Organismic Biology (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Students enrolled in the Veterinary Option are required to take BIOS 103.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics and Statistics </span><span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">(ACE 3)</span><span class="generated-style"> 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 102 Trigonometry (2 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 104 Calculus for Managerial &amp; Social Sciences (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">STAT 218 Intro to Statistics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Proficiency at the college algebra level must be demonstrated either by a placement exam or through course work. If MATH 103 is taken, only 2 credit hrs can be counted toward this requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Communications 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Oral Communications </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> COMM 109, 209, 286; JGEN 300</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Written Communications </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 1)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> ENGL 150, 151; JGEN 200</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Communications and Interpersonal Skills 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> ENGL 150, 151; ALEC 102, 305; COMM 109, 209, 212, or 286; JGEN 120, 200, 300</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Economics, Humanities and Social Sciences 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 211 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ECON 212 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> AECN 141 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Courses 12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Select one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, and 9.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Select one elective in this area 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Experiential Learning 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from the following six categories; maximum of 3 cr hours allowed from any one of the six categories.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Internship and Industry Experience </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> ASCI 395A, ASCI 419, ASCI 490A</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Study Tours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> ASCI 311A, ASCI 311B, ASCI 311D, ASCI 311E, or AGRI 310</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Animal &amp; Meat Evaluation Experience</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span><span class="generated-style">ASCI 300A, ASCI 300B, ASCI 300D, ASCI 300E, ASCI 400A, ASCI 400B, ASCI 400E</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Extension &amp; Service Experience (ASCI 395B)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Research Experience (ASCI 395D, ASCI 419, ASCI 499H)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Undergraduate Teaching Experience (ASCI 395E)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Major Requirements 63</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Option Requirements 62</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Credit Hours Required for Graduation 125</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Also, select one of the following options</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Animal Biology Option</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This option is designed for students considering careers that deal with basic biological principles of animals and birds. Through careful use of electives, students can develop an emphasis in genetics, growth and muscle biology, nutrition, or physiology as they establish a basic background in biological principles and develop molecular and biotechnology laboratory skills. Completion of this option provides excellent preparation for graduate study, other professional programs including medical or dental school, and many other research-based careers.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Departmental Requirements 20</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from:</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 210 Animal Products (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 250 Animal Management (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 251 Intro to Companion Animals (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 330 Animal Breeding 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 341 Physiology &amp; Management of Reproduction 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from the following advanced Animal Science disciplinary courses:</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 421 Advanced Animal Nutrition (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 431 Advanced Animal Breeding (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 441 New Techniques in Reproductive Biology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 442 Endocrinology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Additional Animal Science courses 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">Select from ASCI 300- and 400-level courses </span><span class="requirement-ital">(excluding ASCI 399 and 496)</span><span class="generated-style">.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Science 24-27</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 321 &amp; BIOC 321L Elements of Biochemistry &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOC 431 &amp; BIOC 433 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism &amp; Biochemistry Lab (6 cr) 4-6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOC 431 requires CHEM 252 Organic Chemistry II (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 312 &amp; BIOS 314 Microbiology &amp; Lab 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Physics courses 4-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> MSYM 109, PHYS 141, PHYS 151</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Course 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Select a course from the “Business Courses” category listed in the Animal Science Business Option</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Free Electives* 14-15</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">* Students planning to apply for post-graduate or professional programs should consult their academic adviser for specific program requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Animal Production and Management Option</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This option is designed for students interested in careers related to the production and management of beef cattle, dairy cattle, horses, poultry, and swine. Although students may emphasize a particular industry or production system, the option provides a balanced study of animal nutrition, meat animal products, reproductive physiology, breeding and genetics, and business management of animal production systems. Completion of this option provides excellent preparation for those wishing to be involved in production agriculture and the abundance of allied industries that support animal agriculture.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Departmental Requirements 18-20</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 200 Animal &amp; Carcass Evaluation 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 210 Animal Products 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 330 Animal Breeding 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 341 Physiology &amp; Management of Reproduction 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI Management Courses 4-6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> ASCI 450, ASCI 451, ASCI 452, ASCI 453, ASCI 454, ASCI 455, ASCI 457</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 15-20</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry 8-12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from either of the following two chemistry series:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Chemistry Series 1 (CHEM 105 &amp; 106) does not provide adequate preparation for advanced chemistry or graduate school. If you desire this advanced training, Series 2 is recommended.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">1) CHEM 105 &amp; CHEM 106 Chemistry in Context I &amp; II (8 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">2) CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 General Chemistry I &amp; II and CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab (12 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 312 Microbiology </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> VBMS 303 Principles &amp; Prevention of Livestock Diseases 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Physics Course 4-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span><span class="generated-style">MSYM 109, PHYS 141, PHYS 151</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Courses 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Select courses from the “Business Courses” category listed in the Animal Science Business Option.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Free Electives 13-20</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Option</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This option is designed for students considering careers with companies, financial institutions, government agencies, and other business concerns that support the livestock production and processing industries. Through careful use of electives, students may receive minors in other business-related programs and develop specific expertise for positions in management, marketing, and public relations. Completion of this option provides students with a solid background in both animal science and business.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Departmental Requirements 14-16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 200 Animal &amp; Carcass Evaluation </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ASCI 210 Animal Products 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 250 Animal Management </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ASCI 251 Intro to Companion Animals 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 330 Animal Breeding </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ASCI 341 Physiology &amp; Management of Reproduction 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI Management Courses 4-6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span><span class="generated-style">ASCI 450, ASCI 451, ASCI 452, ASCI 453, ASCI 454, ASCI 455, and ASCI 457</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 8-12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry 8-12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from either of the following two chemistry series:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Chemistry Series 1 (CHEM 105 &amp; 106) does not provide adequate preparation for advanced chemistry or graduate school. If you desire this advanced training, Series 2 is recommended.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">1) CHEM 105 &amp; CHEM 106 Chemistry in Context I &amp; II (8 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">2) CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 General Chemistry I &amp; II and CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab (12 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Courses 16-19</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Accounting 4-6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 201 &amp; ACCT 202 Introductory Accounting I &amp; II (6 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 306 Survey of Accounting (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Selected Business Courses 12-13</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of four courses representing at least three of the following four areas:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Finance</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 301 Farm Accounting, Analysis, &amp; Tax Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 420 International Food &amp; Agricultural Trade</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 452 Agricultural Finance</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 453 Agricultural &amp; Rural Property Appraisal</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ECON 303 An Intro to Money &amp; Banking</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FINA 260 Personal Finance</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FINA 361 Finance</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FINA 365 Financial Institutions &amp; Markets</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 201 Farm &amp; Ranch Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 265 Resource &amp; Environmental Economics I</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 316 Agribusiness Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 416 Advanced Agribusiness Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 121 Intro to Entrepreneurial Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 320 Principles of Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 331 Operations &amp; Supply Chain Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 360 Managing Behavior in Organizations</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 361 Personnel/Human Resource Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 225 Agribusiness Entrepreneurship in Food Products Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 325 Marketing of Agricultural Commodities</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 425 Agricultural Marketing in a Multinational Environment</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 341 Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 345 Market Research</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 346 Marketing Channels Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 347 Marketing Communication Strategy</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 425 Retailing Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 442 Marketing Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Law</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 256 Legal Aspects in Agriculture</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 357 Natural Resources &amp; Environmental Law</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 445 Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Policy Analysis</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 456 Environmental Law</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 457 Water Law</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BLAW 371 Legal Environment</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BLAW 372 Business Law I</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Supporting Course 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 202 Leadership Development in Small Groups &amp; Teams</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Free Electives* 12-21</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">* Students are encouraged to consult the Undergraduate Bulletin for details regarding agribusiness and agricultural economics minors.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Companion Animal Science Option</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Designed for students with a specific interest in companion animals. For students interested in pursuing a career in the companion animal industry, this option provides an overview of the general animal sciences in combination with concentrated study of animal behavior and human interactions along with companion breeding and genetics, nutrition, reproduction, care and management.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Departmental Requirements 20-21</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 250 Animal Management (3 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ASCI 251 Intro to Companion Animals (3 cr) 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 330 Animal Breeding (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ASCI 399 Horse, Dog, &amp; Cat Genetics &amp; Breeding (3 cr) 3-4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 341 Physiology &amp; Management of Reproduction 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 321 Companion Animal Nutrition 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a minimum of 7 credits from:</span><span class="generated-style"> 7</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FDST 107/ASCI 107 Intro to the Companion Animal Food Industry (1 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 171 Human-Companion Animal Interactions (2 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 271 Companion Animal Behavior (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 322 Equine Nutrition (2 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 342 Equine Reproduction (2 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 370 Animal Welfare (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 462 Animal Behavior (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 15-20</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry 8-12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from either of the following two chemistry series</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Chemistry Series 1 (CHEM 105 &amp; 106) does not provide adequate preparation for advanced chemistry or graduate school. If you desire this advanced training, Series 2 is recommended.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">1) CHEM 105 &amp; CHEM 106 Chemistry in Context I &amp; II (8 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">2) CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 General Chemistry I &amp; II and CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab (12 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 312 Microbiology </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> VBMS 303 Principles &amp; Prevention of Livestock Diseases 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Physics Course 4-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span><span class="generated-style">MSYM 109, PHYS 141, PHYS 151</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Courses 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select courses from the “Business Courses” category listed in the Animal Science Business Option.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Free Electives 12-18</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Equine Science Option</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Designed for students with a specific interest in the equine area. For students interested in pursuing a career in the equine industry this option provides a combination of general animal sciences with a concentrated study of equitation, evaluation, nutrition, reproduction, and management of equine.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Departmental Requirements 17-18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 260 Basic Equitation </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ASCI 360 Advanced Equitation 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 250 Animal Management </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ASCI 252 Fundamentals of the Horse Industry 2-3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 330 Animal Breeding 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 341 Physiology &amp; Management of Reproduction 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 322 Equine Nutrition </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ASCI 342 Equine Reproduction 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 450 Horse Management 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Experiential Learning</span><span class="generated-style"> (</span><span class="requirement-ital">From the Animal Science Core)</span><span class="generated-style"> 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span><span class="generated-style">ASCI 300E Principles of Horse Evaluation &amp; Judging </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ASCI 400E Advanced Horse Evaluation &amp; Judging</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 15-20</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry 8-12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from either of the following two chemistry series:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE: </span><span class="generated-style">Chemistry Series 1 (CHEM 105 &amp; 106) does not provide adequate preparation for advanced chemistry or graduate school. If you desire this advanced training, Series 2 is recommended.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">1) CHEM 105 &amp; CHEM 106 Chemistry in Context I &amp; II (8 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">2) CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 General Chemistry I &amp; II and CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab (12 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 312 Microbiology </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> VBMS 303 Principles &amp; Prevention of Livestock Diseases 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Physics course 4-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span><span class="generated-style">MSYM 109, PHYS 141, PHYS 151</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Courses 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select courses from the “Business Courses” category listed in the Animal Science Business Option</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Free Electives 13-19</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Meat Science Option</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This option is designed for students seeking careers associated with the meat and food industry, including research and product development, quality assurance, food safety, fresh meat processing, meat product manufacturing, equipment and ingredient technology, and government service. Students will build a solid foundation in product characteristics, product development, production, food safety, and marketing of fresh and processed meats. Completion of the industry emphasis provides excellent preparation for a career in the meat and food industry and completion of the science emphasis provides excellent background for graduate study in meat or food science.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Departmental Requirements 14</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 200 Animal &amp; Carcass Evaluation 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 210 Animal Products 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 211 Meat Technology Lab 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 310 Fresh Meats 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 410 Processed Meats 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Experiential Learning</span><span class="generated-style"> (</span><span class="requirement-ital">From the Animal Science Core)</span><span class="generated-style"> 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">One selection must be from: </span><span class="generated-style">Internship &amp; Industry Experience (ASCI 395A, ASCI 419, or ASCI 490A) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> Study Tour (ASCI 311B)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Mathematics</span><span class="generated-style"> (</span><span class="requirement-ital">From the Animal Science Core)</span><span class="generated-style"> 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="requirement-ital">Select:</span><span class="generated-style"> STAT 218 Intro to Statistics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 7-8</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">From the Animal Science Core, select:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 102 Cell Structure &amp; Function</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a physics course from:</span><span class="generated-style"> MSYM 109, PHYS 141, PHYS 151 4-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 312 Microbiology 3</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Select additional courses from the Industry Emphasis or the Science Emphasis</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title-underline">Industry Emphasis</span><span class="header-paragraph-title">—</span><span class="generated-style">Intended for a career in the industry; not adequate preparation for graduate school.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Experiential Learning 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">From the Animal Science core, select:</span><span class="generated-style"> ASCI 300A or 300D</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 8</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 105 Chemistry in Context I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 106 Chemistry in Context II 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Additional Courses 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">FDST 372 Food Safety &amp; Sanitation 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">FDST 460 Food Product Development Concepts 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select additional courses from ASCI or FDST at 200 level or above</span><span class="generated-style"> 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> These courses are beyond those required for experiential learning.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Courses 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 201 Introductory Accounting I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AECN 225 Agribusiness Entrepreneurship in Food Products Marketing 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one additional course from the “Business Courses” category listed in the </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital"> Animal Science Business Option</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Free Electives 8-9</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title-underline">Science Emphasis</span><span class="header-paragraph-title">—</span><span class="generated-style">Intended as preparation for graduate school or a career in the industry.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Additional Courses 14-15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select two courses from:</span><span class="generated-style"> 5-6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FDST 372 Food Safety &amp; Sanitation (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FDST 403 Food Quality Assurance (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FDST 405 Food Microbiology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FDST 406 Food Microbiology Lab (2 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Select additional courses from ASCI or FDST at 200 level or above 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> These courses are beyond those required for experiential learning.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Courses 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select courses from the “Business Courses” category listed in the Animal Science Business Option</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Free Electives 8-9</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Veterinary Animal Sciences Option</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This option is designed for students planning a career in veterinary medicine, and provides for completion of the pre-veterinary course requirements for application to the joint University of Nebraska/Iowa State University program for the doctorate of veterinary medicine (DVM) degree. However, it can easily be adapted to meet specific requirements for other colleges of veterinary medicine. Courses in animal management, nutrition, physiology and related areas complement the foundational science courses and provide a comprehensive background for careers in veterinary medicine. Completion of the option also provides excellent preparation for graduate study or other professional programs in the biological sciences. Students admitted to veterinary college after three years of undergraduate study may earn a bachelor of science degree through a 3+2 program (three years of undergraduate study plus two years of veterinary school).</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Departmental Requirements 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from the following:</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 210 Animal Products (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 250 Animal Management (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 251 Intro to Companion Animals (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 330 Animal Breeding 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ASCI 341 Physiology &amp; Management of Reproduction 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Additional Animal Science courses 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> ASCI 300- and 400-level courses </span><span class="requirement-ital">(excluding ASCI 399 and 496)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 27-28</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 252 Organic Chemistry II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 321 Elements of Biochemistry (3 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOC 431 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism (4 cr) 3-4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 312 &amp; BIOS 314 Microbiology &amp; Lab 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 141 Elementary General Physics I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE: </span><span class="generated-style">Although PHYS 142 is not required for admission to the ISU CVM, it is required by other colleges of veterinary medicine including KSU. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Business Courses 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select a course from the “Business Courses” category listed in the Animal Science Business Option</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Communications</span><span class="generated-style"> </span><span class="requirement-ital">(From Core Requirements)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span><span class="requirement-ital">Two writing courses (6 cr) and one oral communications course (3 cr) required.</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select appropriate courses from listing given under “Core Requirements.”</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Free Electives 14-15</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Animal Science requirements are the same as outlined for the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Animal Science Minor</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A minor requires completing 18 hours of animal science courses including 6 hours at the 300 level or above.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Certificates</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Meat Culinology® Certificate</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Meat Culinology® Certificate program consists of six courses. Students must successfully complete all six courses in order to earn certification. Successful completion is considered an earned grade of “C” or higher. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All courses are delivered online through UNL’s Blackboard system. </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">The Courses</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Introduction to Animal Products (ASCI 210), offered each semester </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Meat Specifications &amp; Procurement (ASCI 213/NUTR 213), </span><span class="basic-text-ital">offered each semester </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Fresh Meats (ASCI 310),</span><span class="basic-text-ital"> offered each fall</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Food Service Applications (NUTR 343 or ASCI 343), </span><span class="basic-text-ital">offered each spring</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Processed and Value Added Meats (ASCI 410), </span><span class="basic-text-ital">offered each spring</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">HACCP &amp; Food Safety Systems for Processors (ASCI 411), </span><span class="basic-text-ital">offered each fall</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For additional information contact: Dr. Steve Jones </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Nebraska Beef Industry Scholars Certificate</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Nebraska Beef Industry Scholars (NBIS) program is a unique educational opportunity at UNL. Incoming freshman who have an interest in pursuing a career in the beef cattle or allied industries, regardless of major, are identified through an application process as candidates for the certificate program. Students must apply during the fall of their freshman year. Students in the program take a specialized series of courses including seminars with beef industry leaders, issues based courses, a comprehensive study tour, and a national policy course that includes a trip to the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association (NCBA) annual meeting and trade show. Students also help plan and conduct the annual Beef Summit that is held in the Animal Science Building every fall. In addition to the courses unique to NBIS, scholars will be required to take a commodities marketing class, a crisis communication course and two courses from the following: Cow/calf management, feedlot management, and fresh meats. In total, the program requires 18-20 credit hours. Currently, all scholars are student members of the Nebraska Cattleman’s Association. More information about the NBIS program can be found at http://www.animalscience.unl.edu/undergraduate/nbis.html or by contacting Dr. Matt Spangler. </span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
