<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Anthropology</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="anthropology">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Anthropology</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Anthropology</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Martha McCollough</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Ray Hames</span><span class="generated-style">, 810 Oldfather Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Hames</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Athanassopoulos, Awakuni-Swetland, McCollough, Wandsnider, Willis</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Osborne</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturer:</span><span class="generated-style"> Beyene</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Undergraduate Advisor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Dr. Martha McCollough, 402-472-2441, mmccollough1@unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Courses in anthropology are designed to acquaint the student with the range of human behavior and emphasize archaeology, physical anthropology, cultural anthropology, applied anthropology, and Omaha language and culture.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department of Anthropology participates in the programs in African American and African Studies, Asian Studies, Ethnic Studies, Environmental Studies, Great Plains Studies, International Studies, Latino and Latin American Studies, Native American Studies, and Women’s and Gender Studies.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Recommendations.</span><span class="generated-style"> Because of the broad and interdisciplinary nature of anthropology, we recommend that majors select additional courses outside the department to enhance their appreciation of and improve their skills in related disciplines. The student’s adviser will make specific course recommendations in keeping with individual needs and interests.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span><span class="generated-style"> The Department of Anthropology offers graduate work leading to the master of arts degree. A description of the program appears in the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Graduate Advisor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Dr. Effie Athanassopoulos, 402-472-0172, eathanassopoulos1@unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Anthropology (33 hours)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Foundation Courses 10</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 212 Intro to Cultural Anthropology 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 232 Intro to Prehistory 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 242 &amp; ANTH 242L Intro to Physical Anthropology &amp; Lab 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Advanced Anthropology Courses 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Archaeology 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 431 Historical Archaeology: Current Topics (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 432 History &amp; Theory of Archaeology (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 433 North American Archaeology (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 438 Topics in Old World Prehistory (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Biological Anthropology 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 422 Medical Anthropology (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 442 Human Variation (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 430 Nutritional Anthropology (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 448 Human Growth &amp; Development (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Cultural Anthropology 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 410 Women &amp; Men: An Anthropological Perspective (3 hrs) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 412 Social Structure (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 417 History of Anthropological Theory (3 hrs) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 473 Ecological Anthropology (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 474 Applied &amp; Development Anthropology (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Research Methods 3-4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 290 Fieldwork (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 482 Research Methods in Anthropology (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 484 Quantitative Methods in Anthropology (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 487A-E Analysis of Archaeological Materials (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 490 Advanced Field Work (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 491 Landscape Archaeology (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Electives from 9-10</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from</span><span class="generated-style">: 100-, 200-, 300-, or 400- series</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Fieldwork is recommended.</span><span class="generated-style"> Only 6 credits total of ANTH 290 and ANTH 490 may count toward the major. Only 3 credits of ANTH 291 or ANTH 491 may count toward the major. ANTH 104A, ANTH 105A, ANTH 204A, ANTH 205A, ANTH 210, and ANTH 210A cannot be applied toward the anthropology major. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its program, majors will be required in their senior year:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. To complete an oral examination which focuses on the breadth of the field as well as on the student’s field of specialization.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. To complete a written exit survey, submitted anonymously.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The undergraduate adviser will inform students of the scheduling and format of assessment activities. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Results of participation in these assessment activities will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span><span class="generated-style"> Students contemplating graduate work should work closely with adviser to design course of study.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minor Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A minor may be chosen from any minor offered by the College of Arts and Sciences.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">No course may be taken Pass/No Pass.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Level Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">At least 12 hours in courses numbered in the 300 and 400 series. May be satisfied by advanced anthropology courses or electives.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Requires 18 hours of anthropology including ANTH 110; at least one of the 200-level core courses in anthropology (ANTH 212 Introduction to Cultural Anthropology, ANTH 232 Introduction to Archaeology, or ANTH 242 Introduction to Physical Anthropology); and, at least one 300- or 400-level anthropology course. Up to 6 hours of field study (ANTH 290, ANTH 291, ANTH 490, ANTH 491) and 6 hours of advanced Native language (ANTH 204, ANTH 205, ANTH 210) courses may apply. Excluded courses: ANTH 104, ANTH 105, ANTH 130.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
