<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Architecture</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="architecture">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Architecture</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> The professional program in architecture consists of two components: the two-year Bachelor of Science in Design (BSD-Architecture) and the subsequent two-year Master of Architecture (MArch).</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 for BSD; 54 additional for the MArch</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISERS:</span><span class="generated-style"> Leslie Brehm &amp; Stephanie Kuenning (pre-architecture); assigned faculty (architecture)</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Director:</span><span class="generated-style"> Jefrey Day, 232 Architecture Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Day, Drummond, Duncan, Handa, Hoistad, Kuska, Laging, Scholz</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Ford, Hardy, Krug</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Cheon, Hemsath, Hind, Karle, Kelly, Olshavsky</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors Emeritus:</span><span class="generated-style"> Borner, Corkill, Ertl, Gibbs, Moore, Potter, Puderbaugh, Sawyers, Steward</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chief Advisers:</span><span class="generated-style"> Pre-Architecture: Leslie Brehm (lbrehm2@unl.edu) and Stephanie Kuenning (skuenning2@unl.edu); Architecture: Assigned faculty </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The primary responsibility of the architectural profession is the design of meaningful environments for human occupation and use. Architects, therefore, must be able to understand the needs and desires of the people who will inhabit and use their creations and then effectively synthesize the complex structural, mechanical and constructional components that go into the design of a building. Clearly, they must possess artistic skill as well as technical knowledge.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The architecture program seeks to increase students’ desire to learn and to develop a capacity for critical thinking and sound judgment while simultaneously developing their innate creative potential. Specifically, the curriculum provides the background and means for the student to:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Analyze and understand society’s needs and desires,</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Translate these into a physical form,</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Contribute creatively to the building construction industry,</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Search out new problems and contribute to environmental knowledge through research,</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Initiate and review changes in technology and society, and</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">6. Participate in the community that makes decisions affecting the physical environment.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Architecture is a six-year course of study divided into three, two-year segments. Students choosing to study architecture first enter the College as majors in pre-architecture. After completing a two-year curriculum in pre-architecture, students apply for admission into the architecture program’s professional program. The professional program in architecture consists of two components: the two-year </span><span class="basic-text-bold">bachelor of science in design </span><span class="generated-style">(BSD-Architecture) and the subsequent two-year </span><span class="basic-text-bold">master of architecture</span><span class="generated-style"> (MArch).</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are required to apply for admission into the MArch program after completion of the BSD degree.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In the United States, most state registration boards require a degree from an accredited professional degree program as a prerequisite for licensure. The National Architectural Accreditation Board (NAAB), which is the sole agency authorized to accredit U.S. professional degree programs in architecture, recognizes three types of degrees: the bachelor of architecture, the master of architecture and the doctor of architecture. A program may be granted a 6-year, 3-year, or 2-year term of accreditation, depending on the extent of its conformance with established educational standards.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Masters degree programs may consist of an undergraduate degree and a professional graduate degree, that, when earned sequentially, constitute an accredited professional education. However, the undergraduate degree is not, by itself, recognized as an accredited degree.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">The bachelor of science in design is a para-professional degree and a necessary component of the professional program which culminates with the master of architecture degree. The master of architecture degree is the first professional degree. </span><span class="generated-style">The professional master of architecture degree is fully accredited by the National Architectural Accreditation Board (NAAB).</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition to the normal two-year professional program, </span><span class="basic-text-bold">applicants with degrees from other fields may be eligible to enter the three year master of architecture program with deficiencies.</span><span class="generated-style"> These deficiencies are evaluated by the program director on an individual basis after admission resulting from a review of the applicant’s transcripts and other pertinent professionally-related materials by the Student Affairs Committee. Students in this three year program are required to complete 27 to 50 hours of selected undergraduate courses (a minimum of one additional year) prior to pursuing the professional program. Applicants with deficiencies exceeding 50 credit hours are not admitted.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For those who would like to pursue scholarship in architecture, the architecture program also offers a 36 credit hour, scholarly-nonprofessional </span><span class="basic-text-bold">master of science in architecture degree for students with a bachelors degree in architecture or a related discipline</span><span class="generated-style">.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">The Master of Architecture Professional Program</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">General</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The professional program in architecture is a six-year course of study that includes a two-year pre-professional segment, a two-year core segment culminating in the award of the bachelor of science in design (BSD) and culminates in the final two-year exploratory segment which results in the receipt of the professional master of architecture degree (MArch).</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Although the bachelor of science in design degree is an integral part of the four-year professional program in architecture, it should be clearly understood that the undergraduate BSD is not a professional degree and is not accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board. Most state registration boards will not acknowledge any degree unless accompanied by an accredited professional degree. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The accredited, first professional degree awarded by the College of Architecture is the </span><span class="basic-text-bold">master of architecture</span><span class="generated-style"> degree which is awarded at the successful conclusion of the professional program in architecture. This is the only accredited professional architecture program in the state of Nebraska.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Upon successful completion of the two-year pre-architecture program, students who have been admitted to the third year may enroll in the curriculum that leads to the BSD degree and the MArch degree.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The professional program in architecture is structured to develop highly competent professional architects. Each applicant, depending on previous academic training, professional practice, and specific interest, will work with their adviser in establishing a specific program of study suited to his or her abilities and career objectives.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the Architecture Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">After completion of the first two years of pre-architecture studies, either within the College of Architecture or at another institution, students may apply for admission to the architecture program.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Pre-architecture students should apply for admission to the professional program in architecture. Successful applicants will have their major changed from pre-architecture to BSD-Architecture option.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Available teaching resources and space capacities limit enrollment to the third year of architectural studies; therefore enrollment limits are established each semester.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Required courses must be completed before advancing to the next year of study.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Entrance Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To be considered for admission to the architecture program, applicants must:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Be enrolled in the College of Architecture</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Be in good scholastic standing</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Have completed the 1st and 2nd year pre-architecture program of study.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Third Year Admission Process</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. An application for admission may be completed by filling out the online application. The program receives applications once a year in early February.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Applicants must submit a portfolio conforming to the defined criteria for the program applied for by the date posted at the completion of the spring semester.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Any applicant who has previously applied for admission and has not been accepted or who fails to enroll in the professional program in architecture after an acceptance must reapply in the regular manner. Students may apply for admission to the architecture program only three times.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Evaluation</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Student Affairs Committee of the program will carefully evaluate the applications for admission. The committee considers three elements in their evaluation; cumulative grade point average, a weighted grade point average, and the portfolio of student work. The weighted grade point average gives additional value to the applicant’s achievement in the required ARCH prefix course or transfer equivalents in the pre-professional curriculum.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Selection</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the architecture program will be awarded to applicants who show the greatest professional potential and have demonstrated scholastic achievement. The Student Affairs Committee reserves the right to not fill all available spaces in the professional program in architecture if it determines that the remaining applicants have not performed at an acceptable level.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the 2-Year Master of Architecture Program</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students from both inside and outside the program must apply to gain admission to the 2-year MArch degree program. Applications are available in October from the department office and are reviewed once a year in February. The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is not required.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All applications for admission are subject to approval of the Student Affairs Committee. Fifth and sixth year enrollment shall be limited by the teaching resources and space capacities of the department. An enrollment quota is established prior to each admissions cycle.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the professional program are governed by the rules, procedures and policies established in the architecture program. These are published in the Student Guide or by official notification by the faculty.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Entrance Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To be considered for admission to the 5th and 6th year of the professional program in architecture, applicants must:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Have a 4-year degree from an accredited architecture program</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Present a portfolio of design work</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Be in good scholastic standing</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Have a B average or its equivalent in past academic programs</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Student Affairs Committee of the architecture program requires a minimum TOEFL score of 550 or 213 computer-based or Internet-based score of 79-80 for all international student applicants whose first language is not English.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Evaluation</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A portfolio of an applicant’s recent design work will be evaluated by the Student Affairs Committee of the architecture program and is considered to be a very important part of the application review process, along with the applicant’s educational profile, letters of recommendation, transcripts, and application form.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Selection</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The limited number of spaces available each semester will be awarded to applicants who have displayed the highest abilities in a combination of scholastic achievement, design capability, and professional potential.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Admissions Committee reserves the right to reject applicants who, in its opinion, have not reached an acceptable level of design proficiency.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the 3-Year Master of Architecture Program</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Entrance Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To be considered for admission to the 3-year MArch program, applicants must:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Have a four-year bachelor degree</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Have a B (3.0) cumulative grade point average in past academic programs</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Student Affairs Committee requires a minimum TOEFL score of 550 or 213 computer-based or Internet-based score of 79-80 for all international student applicants whose first language is not English.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Evaluation</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Student Affairs Committee evaluates the candidate’s past academic record, three letters of recommendation, a statement of educational goals and the information requested on the application form. A portfolio is not required for candidates applying for the three year masters degree program, however, providing evidence of past achievements and/or creative activity is helpful to the committee in its evaluation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Selection</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The limited number of spaces available each semester will be awarded to applicants who have displayed the highest abilities in a combination of scholastic achievement and professional potential.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Deficiencies</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Student Affairs Committee and/or the Program Chair reserve the right to require additional course work be done to correct perceived deficiencies in the candidates educational background.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Architecture Curriculum</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The pre-architecture curriculum begins with a two-year basic design core. This core introduces students to visual literacy and design fundamentals. The pre-architecture program is followed by two years of architectural instruction leading to a bachelor of science in design. After receipt of the bachelors degree, students may apply for an additional two years of study, leading to a professional master of architecture degree. The professional master of architecture degree is accredited by the National Architectural Accreditation Board (NAAB).</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Architecture, and all six years of the architecture program, are located in Lincoln. However, we do offer the option to do the first two years of the program at UNO. After successfully completing the prescribed pre-architecture program at UNO, students may transfer to UNL and apply for admission to the third year of study in the Architecture Program.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For more information about courses at UNO, or transferring from UNO to UNL, please contact us.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">PRE-ARCHITECTURE: First Year, First Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 140A Visual Literacy Lab: Analysis &amp;/or Composition </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span><span class="generated-style"> 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 140B Visual Literacy Lab: Perceptual Drawing </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span><span class="generated-style"> 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 223 Computer Application in Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 151 Elements of Physics </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 4)</span><span class="generated-style"> 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 150 or ENGL 151 English Composition Elective </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 1)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 101 Intro to Architecture 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">PRE-ARCHITECTURE: First Year, Second Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 141A Visual Literacy Lab: Color </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span><span class="generated-style"> 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 141B Visual Literacy Lab: Speculative Drawing </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span><span class="generated-style"> 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 3)</span><span class="generated-style"> 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 150 or ENGL 151 English Composition Elective </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 1)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Elective </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 6)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">PRE-ARCHITECTURE: Second Year, First Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 210 Fundamentals of Design 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 240 Architecture History &amp; Theory I </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 5)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 220 Statics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE 9 Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">Total 14</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">PRE-ARCHITECTURE: Second Year, Second Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 211 Elements of Architecture &amp; Interior Design 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 241 Architecture History &amp; Theory II </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 7)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 324 Strengths 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Communication Elective: COMM 109 Fundamentals or COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">Total 14</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">ARCHITECTURE: Third Year, First Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 310 Fundamentals of Architectural Design </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 10)</span><span class="generated-style"> 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 350 Design Process 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 331 Architectural Structures I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 333 Building Environmental Technical Systems I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Open Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">ARCHITECTURE: Third Year, Second Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 311 Architectural Design: Ecological Context </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 10)</span><span class="generated-style"> 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 360 Site Context Issues 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 341 Architecture Theory 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 332 Architectural Structures II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 334 Building Environmental Technical Systems II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">ARCHITECTURE: Fourth Year, First Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 410 Architectural Design: Tectonics </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 10)</span><span class="generated-style"> 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 430 Technological Integration 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Architectural History/Theory Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Open Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">Total 14</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">ARCHITECTURE: Fourth Year, Second Semester</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 411 Architectural Design: Urbanism Studio </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 10)</span><span class="generated-style"> 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 461 Urbanism 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE 8 Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Open Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">Total 14</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1-bold"><span class="generated-style">Total for Graduation 120</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must earn at least a C (2.0) in all courses with an ARCH, IDES, or LARC prefix to earn credit toward their degree. Students will be required to retake all core required courses with a grade of C- or below, but will not be required to repeat courses that were taken as electives.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">None of the required classes offered in the professional program are offered Pass/No Pass, but a maximum of 12 Pass/No Pass credit hours of humanities, social sciences, or open electives may be taken from departments outside the College of Architecture.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Courses taken outside the architecture, landscape architecture, or interior design programs to fulfill the upper level outside elective requirement at the 800 level or 900 level, with or without a 400-level counterpart, in a minor, collateral, or supporting area of work, can be taken on a Pass/No Pass basis.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Professional Program, Architecture, Landscape Architecture and Interior Design</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the first year are required to maintain both a semester and cumulative grade point average at or above 2.0. The standard rises to a grade point average of 2.6 in the second year. Admission into the third year of both programs requires a cumulative grade point average of 2.6. The College places students who fail to meet these standards on academic probation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Third and Fourth Year, Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the third and fourth year of the BSD program are required to meet two parallel academic standards. First the student must maintain a semester grade point average of 2.6 to remain in good academic standing. The Program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation. Further, students whose GPA for the academic year is between 2.6 and 3.0 are required to submit their studio work for review by the Student Affairs Committee for determination of continuance in the program or repetition of the year’s studio sequence.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Fifth and Sixth Year, Architecture</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in the MArch program are required to maintain a semester grade point average of 3.0 to remain in good academic standing. The Program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
