<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Athletic Training</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="athletic-training">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Athletic Training</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Education &amp; Human Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEPARTMENT:</span><span class="generated-style"> Nutrition &amp; Health Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span><span class="generated-style"> Athletic Training </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span><span class="generated-style"> 2.5 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Vicki Fisher </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Athletic training is the art and science of treating athletic injuries. The Commission on Accreditation of Athletic Training Education (CAATE) develops and maintains guidelines for colleges and universities to provide an education for athletic training and verifies that those standards have been met. The University of Nebraska–Lincoln athletic training program is currently granted accreditation status by the CAATE. The underlying philosophy of this program is the same as with all other components of the University of Nebraska athletic medicine program. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The athletic training education program is dedicated to providing students with educational programming that is recognized as excellent. It is dedicated to providing students with opportunities to have clinical experiences with teams noted for excellence, in facilities noted for excellence. It is also expected that students will display excellence in academic and clinical settings, and will adhere to the highest standards as put forth in the National Athletic Trainers Association Code of Professional Ethics. The University of Nebraska athletic training education program is dedicated to the continual assessment of our program and our students in order to maintain our standards. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The athletic training education program is housed in the Department of Nutrition and Health Sciences. Completion of the entire program constitutes a major field of study. Students completing the course of study are eligible to sit for the National Athletic Trainers Association Board of Certification Examination. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are required to earn a B- or higher in ATHT 145 in order to continue in the program. All other ATHT courses must be a C+ or higher and must average at least 3.0 to remain in good standing in the program and graduate. The minimum grade requirements for other courses vary. Students are strongly encouraged to contact the advising center for a complete program description.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the athletic training education program is competitive. Included in athletic training education are six semesters of required clinical internship.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Degree at a Glance </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Requirements 32</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 1. 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 2. 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 3. EDPS 330 or EDPS 459 or STAT 218 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 4. CHEM 109 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Course)</span><span class="generated-style"> 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 5. 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 6. PSYC 181 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Course)</span><span class="generated-style"> 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 7. 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 8. 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 9. 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 10. ATHT 445 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Requirement)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional Requirements 45</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ATHT 145, ATHT 146, ATHT 245, ATHT 246, ATHT 249, ATHT 446 (3 hrs ea) 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ATHT 345 and ATHT 346 (4 hrs ea) 8</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ATHT 247, ATHT 248, ATHT 347, ATHT 348, ATHT 447, ATHT 448 (1 hr ea) 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 100, NUTR 250, NUTR 384, NUTR 484 (3 hrs ea) 12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 150 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Supporting Courses 26-30</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ATHC 279 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">MATH 102 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> MATH 103 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> MATH 106 2-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 101 (3 hrs) &amp; BIOS 101L (1 hr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 102 (4 hrs) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 103 (3 hrs) &amp; BIOS 103L (1 hr) 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 214 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 110 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 141 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> PHYS 151 4-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Electives 13-17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Hours 120</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Before a student is admitted to the athletic training education program, they must undergo a period of observation in the training rooms at the University of Nebraska. This period serves two purposes. First, it allows the student to make an informed decision about whether they wish to pursue athletic training as a career. Second, it allows the staff athletic trainers to observe the students work habits and social skills. The ability to work long and sometimes tedious hours and the ability to work well with people is absolutely necessary to be a successful athletic trainer.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Observation lasts for one year, and is tied to the completion of ATHT 145 and ATHT 146. During the first few weeks of the fall semester, the student will be assigned to a rotation between the various sports and training rooms at the University of Nebraska. The student will be asked to observe approximately five hours per week with the various athletic trainers at UNL. During these rotations, the student is expected to finish weekly assignments, which reflect the knowledge and abilities that are expected of an introductory student in athletic training. If a student does not complete the course of study or does not complete ATHT 145 and ATHT 146 with a grade of B- or better, they will be asked to repeat the observational period.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">During the spring semester, the students interested in continuing the athletic training curriculum will apply to the director of athletic training for admittance to ATHT 247. Applications will be considered based on the following criteria:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Completion of ATHT 145 and ATHT 146 with a grade of B- or better.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A cumulative grade point average of 2.75 or better.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Evaluations provided by the staff athletic trainers supervising the students during their observational experiences.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Completion of an application provided by the director of athletic training education, along with an interview with the admissions committee.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">There are a maximum number of students that may be admitted to the curriculum. Therefore, this application process is competitive. Candidates will be evaluated by the entire athletic training staff, and will be selected based on the work and academic criteria outlined above. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">ACE Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Professional Requirements </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Athletic Training</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-ital">A grade of C+ or higher and an overall GPA of 3.0 is required in all ATHT courses unless otherwise indicated.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ATHT 145 Intro to Athletic Training </span><span class="requirement-ital">(grade of B- or higher is required)</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ATHT 146 First Aid, Treatment, &amp; Management of Athletic Injuries </span><span class="requirement-ital">(grade of B- or higher is required) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ATHT 245 Organization &amp; Administration of Athletic Training </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ATHT 246 Prevention &amp; Care of Athletic Injuries </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ATHT 249 Therapeutic Modalities </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ATHT 345 Evaluation of Athletic Injuries </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ATHT 346 Rehabilitation &amp; Reconditioning </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ATHT 445 Advanced Studies in Athletic Training </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ATHT 446 Medical Aspects of Athletic Training </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ATHT 247 Clinical Education I </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ATHT 248 Clinical Education II </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ATHT 347 Clinical Education III </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ATHT 348 Clinical Education IV </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ATHT 447 Clinical Education V </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ATHT 448 Clinical Education VI </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Nutrition and Health Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-ital">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for NUTR courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 100 Nutrition, Exercise &amp; Health </span><span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C+ or higher is required)</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 150 Foundations in Nutrition &amp; Health Promotion </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 250 Human Nutrition &amp; Metabolism </span><span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C+ or higher is required)</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 384 Biomechanics of Human Movement </span><span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C+ or higher is required)</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 484 Physiology of Exercise </span><span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C+ or higher is required)</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Supporting Courses</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ATHC 279 Coaching Effectiveness &amp; Psychological Components of Sports Performance </span><span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C+ or higher is required)</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">EDPS 330 Measurement &amp; Evaluation in Nutrition, Fitness &amp; Health Promotion </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> EDPS 459 Statistical Methods </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> STAT 218 Introduction to Statistics </span><span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C or higher is required) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PSYC 181 Intro to Psychology </span><span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C+ or higher is required)</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 102 Trigonometry </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> MATH 103 College Algebra &amp; Trigonometry </span><span class="requirement-bold">or </span><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I </span><span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C or higher is required)</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Supporting Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 102 Cell Structure &amp; Function </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 103 &amp; BIOS 103L Organismic Biology </span><span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C or higher is required) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L Human Physiology &amp; Lab </span><span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C+ or higher is required)</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 214 Human Anatomy </span><span class="requirement-ital">(grade of C+ or higher is required)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 141 Elementary General Physics I </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> PHYS 151 Elements of Physics</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Electives</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Grades of D-, D, D+, C- satisfy requirements of the programs in human sciences unless specified otherwise under the Programs and Departments section of the bulletin. Students who receive a grade of D-, D, D+, or C-, however, are encouraged to retake the course, particularly if it is in the major area.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Grades Earned Outside UN System</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Up to 9 hours of grades below C (C-, D+, D, D-) from other academic institutions can only be applied to general education requirements and elective classes.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Felony and Misdemeanor Convictions</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS), along with the public and private schools and community agencies who provide services or programs for children, are all keenly attuned to the safety of the educational community, and particularly children in the classroom. We have the responsibility to ensure that our students who interact with individuals served by schools or other agencies meet a high level of personal, professional and ethical behavior. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Nebraska Department of Education policy requires that a person with any felony conviction or a misdemeanor conviction involving assault, abuse, neglect, or sexual misconduct shall not be allowed to participate in pre-student teaching laboratory and classroom experiences or student teach without approval of the State Board of Education. To comply with this policy, CEHS will require each student in a teacher education program and students in non-teacher education programs who interact with children in a public agency setting to complete an official Criminal History Background Check through OneSource, the Background Check Company, upon entry into the College.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">If a student does have any felony or any misdemeanor charges or convictions, he/she is required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Field Experience as soon as possible. This meeting will be held so that the student can receive guidance with respect to the impact of the conviction on the student’s future in the College, the State Board of Education approval and, more broadly, on the student’s ability to find success in the profession of education.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each student who has completed an initial Criminal History Background Check through OneSource, The Background Check Company, will be required to report any new charge or conviction acquired after the initial check, to the director of Field Experiences. Completion of a second official Criminal History Background Check through OneSource, The Background Check Company, will be required prior to the student’s culminating field experience such as student teaching or an internship. Each student is responsible for the cost of the two criminal history reviews. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Education and Human Sciences aims to train and graduate teachers of the highest caliber possible, and therefore, the standards the College sets for its students may be more stringent than the rules the Department of Education sets for field experience. A student should not assume that merely because the State Board of Education would approve placement in the field, that the College is willing to make such a placement, or that a participating partner school is willing to accept the student’s placement into its midst.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The consequences of one conviction compared to another may vary significantly, depending upon the facts underlying the convictions. Those facts are determined by the College. In some instances, the behavior associated with the conviction may be so egregious as to render placement in a field experience virtually impossible. In such instances, termination or long-term suspension from a teaching program may be appropriate. In other instances, a responsible passage of time without further criminal incident may indicate that the student has matured and is ready to reconvene his or her education. Consequences will very likely be different from case to case, as each of these difficult matters is unique. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that the safety of children in the classroom, the best interest of the student, and the reputation of the College, are all recognized and promoted. Failure to honestly disclose a conviction may be cause for disciplinary action separate from the conviction itself. Students willing to honestly address the challenges that arise from the past mistakes are more likely to reach a favorable outcome, than those who further jeopardize their integrity with a lie. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In additional to criminal convictions, other non-criminal behaviors which: involve risks that are unacceptable for future teachers and the children charged to their care; demonstrate a lack of professionalism and good judgment; and evidence a disregard for one’s personal reputation, the integrity of the College and the teaching profession, may bring into question a student’s ability to be successful in an education career. Before engaging in such questionable behavior, students must consider how the College, the profession, educational employer, parents of school-aged children, and the community which is the State of Nebraska, would perceive or evaluate the impact of that behavior with respect to the students’ ability to serve children. To be allowed to teach is a great honor and a great responsibility. Teaching is a profession that requires its potential candidates to be individuals of the highest integrity. Prospective teachers must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and for their students. They serve as important role models and mentors for children during very impressionable years. Teachers are responsible for the education, safety and well-being for anyone in their charge. Indeed, teachers hold the future of all in their care. Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences is most interested in training future teachers who show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act responsibly. These individuals must be able to serve as representatives of our College and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. These standards and practices also apply to individuals in CEHS programs intended to serve children in a community setting.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Should the College, through the reasonable exercise of the judgment of its Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience, determine that a student’s individual behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons and others in the educational community, the College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to deny entry to or dismiss such a student from any program which leads to certification or to service of children in a community agency. More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum, pre-practicum, student teaching or similar field experience, since the interests and safety of the children, and young people present in the classroom, schools and other venues where these practicum experiences take place are paramount.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Problematic behaviors, which the College of Education and Human Sciences reasonably determines renders the candidate a risk to the educational community or demonstrates a likelihood of illegal activity, may be established by any credible means, including the facts surrounding a record of arrests and/or convictions.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Similarly, behaviors which result in a finding by a court or other governmental body that the individual is:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a mentally ill and dangerous person;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">mentally incompetent to stand trial;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">acquitted of criminal charges because of insanity;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an incapacitated person;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a person in need of a guardian or conservator, or;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a person unable to manage his or her property due to mental illness, mental deficiency, or chronic use of drugs or chronic intoxication are the kind of behaviors which are likely to disqualify a candidate from participation in practicum experiences and other College of Education and Human Sciences programs.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Similar to the discussion concerning criminal convictions above, the consequences for unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will very likely be different in each case, due to the unique circumstances involved in each matter. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that safety in the classroom, the reputation of the College, and the best interest of the student, are all recognized and promoted.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Appeal to the Dean</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience with respect to a criminal behavior matter, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing within no greater than ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student’s written appeal shall clearly explain to the Dean the basis for the student’s appeal. The Dean will review the student’s basis for appeal, and is authorized, but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student’s written appeal. The Dean is authorized to collect such additional information as she or he deems necessary to review an investigation (including but not limited to the student’s educational records maintained by the College, other documentation, personal interviews and meetings with the student, College faculty, administration and staff, and others with relevant information). The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possibly, but in no case longer than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience or both, a written decision, which decision shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review within the University of Nebraska.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
