<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Biochemistry (CASNR)</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="biochemistry-casnr-">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Biochemistry (CASNR)</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Biochemistry (CASNR)</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Biological Chemistry</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span><span class="generated-style"> 2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Britta Osborne</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Paul Black,</span><span class="generated-style"> N200 Beadle Center</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Becker, Cahoon, DiRusso, Lou, Markwell, Nickerson, Parkhurst, Spreitzer, Staswick, Weeks, Wood, Zempleni</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Adamec, Barycki, Griep, Lee, Sarath, Simpson, Somerville, Stone, Wilson</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bailey, Basset, Baun, Fomenko, Hall, Harris, Khalimonchuk, Markham</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Madhavan</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator for Undergraduate Research:</span><span class="generated-style"> Madhavan</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Center for Biological Chemistry offers studies leading to a bachelor of science (BS) or a combined bachelors and masters degree (BS and MS) in biochemistry. The training offered is suitable for a professional career in biochemistry which may lead to employment in various industries involved in the manufacture or processing of chemicals, foods, feeds, toiletries, and pharmaceuticals; or federal agencies such as the Food and Drug Administration, U.S. Department of Agriculture, U.S. Public Health Service, and Environmental Protection Agency. The program is also suitable as preparation for graduate studies leading to academic careers in biochemistry and for professional careers in medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine and health-related fields.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The combined bachelors and masters degree in biochemistry is especially tailored for highly motivated undergraduate students with superior ability who seek additional training to further their career goals. This research thesis-based program is designed to provide opportunities to students to carry out and interpret contemporary research.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span><span class="generated-style"> Advanced degrees of master of science and doctor of philosophy are available. For details, consult the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Laboratory Fee and Deposit.</span><span class="generated-style"> Students who enroll in laboratory courses in the Center for Biological Chemistry may be required to pay a small nonrefundable cash fee to defray the cost of materials consumed in the course and a deposit to cover the cost of replacing or repairing equipment the student may damage in the laboratory.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Biochemistry Core 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGRI 103/NRES 103 Intro to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 101 Career Opportunities in Biochemistry 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 431 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 432 Gene Expression &amp; Replication 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 433 Biochemistry Lab 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 435 Advanced Topics in Biochemistry</span><span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 10)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 43-49</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 102 Cell Structure &amp; Function</span><span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 4)</span><span class="generated-style"> 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 206 General Genetics </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> AGRO 315 Genetics 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 312 Microbiology 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 313 Molecular Microbiology Lab (2 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 314 Microbiology Lab (1 cr) 1-2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one sequence from:</span><span class="generated-style"> 9-12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 General Chemistry I &amp; II (4 cr ea) &amp; CHEM 221 Elementary Quantitative Analysis (4 cr) (12 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 113 Fundamental Chemistry I (4 cr) &amp; CHEM 114 Fundamental Chemistry II (3 cr) &amp; CHEM 116 Quantitative Chemistry Lab (2 cr) (9 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one sequence from:</span><span class="generated-style"> 4-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 261 &amp; CHEM 263 Organic Chemistry &amp; Lab (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one sequence from:</span><span class="generated-style"> 4-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 252 &amp; CHEM 254 Organic Chemistry II &amp; Lab (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 262 &amp; CHEM 264 Organic Chemistry &amp; Lab (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 471 Physical Chemistry </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 481 Physical Chemistry I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one sequence from:</span><span class="generated-style"> 10</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 141 &amp; PHYS 142 Elementary General Physics I &amp; II (5 cr ea) (10 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 212 General Physics I &amp; II (4 cr ea) and PHYS 221 &amp; PHYS 222 General Physics Lab I &amp; II (1 cr ea) (10 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics and Statistics 10</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I</span><span class="requirement-ital"> (ACE 3)</span><span class="generated-style"> 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Communications 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Written Communication </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 1)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> ENGL 150, ENGL 151, ENGL 254; JGEN 120, JGEN 200, JGEN 300</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Communication and Interpersonal Skills </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> ALEC 102; COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 286; JGEN 300</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Economics, Humanities, and Social Sciences 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 211 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ECON 212 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> AECN 141 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 6)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Courses 12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Select one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, and 9.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Free Electives 25-31</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Minimum Credit Hours for Graduation 120</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students concerned about their preparation for college-level biology should take BIOS 101 and BIOS 101L prior to BIOS 102. Please consult your adviser if in doubt. Within the same subject matter area, students may request a more advanced course be substituted for a required course.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Advanced Placement and International Baccalaureate Credit.</span><span class="generated-style"> Students who earned AP or IB credit for general chemistry in high school are still required to complete a freshman-level chemistry sequence at an accredited post-secondary institution. These students are encouraged, but not required, to take CHEM 113/CHEM 114/CHEM 116 rather than CHEM 109/CHEM 110/CHEM 221. High school dual enrollment credit is not included in this policy.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Pass/No Pass.</span><span class="generated-style"> Students in biochemistry may not take any of the courses required for the biochemistry degree program Pass/No Pass except for courses involving independent study, research, and seminars.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A minimum of 18 credit hours of course work to include the following courses:</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 431 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 432 Gene Expression &amp; Replication 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 206 General Genetics </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> AGRO 315 Genetics 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 312 Microbiology 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 313 Molecular Microbiology Lab (2 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 314 Microbiology Lab (1 cr) 1-2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 252 Organic Chemistry II </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 262 Organic Chemistry 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 254 Organic Chemistry II Lab (1 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 264 Organic Chemistry Lab (2 cr) 1-2</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
