<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Biological Sciences</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="biological-sciences">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Biological Sciences</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Biological Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Wendy O’Connor</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Valery E. Forbes,</span><span class="generated-style"> 348 Manter Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Vice Director:</span><span class="generated-style"> John C. Osterman, 348 Manter Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Avramova, Basolo, Blum, Cerutti, Forbes, Fritz, Gardner, Gibson, Harshman, Kamil, Knops, Mackenzie, Morris, Nickerson, Wagner, Wood, Zera</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Angeletti, Atkin, Bachman, Chia, Christensen, Elthon, Hebets, Li, E. Moriyama, H. Moriyama, Osterman, Pilson, Storz, L. Zhang</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Brassil, Brisson, Brown, Russo, Smith, Tenhumberg, Weber, Yu, C. Zhang</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Woodman</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Glider, Hansen</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The School of Biological Sciences offers educational opportunities in various areas of biology leading toward either the bachelor of arts or the bachelor of science degree. Study in the biological sciences prepares students for a variety of careers requiring knowledge of biological processes, such as teaching; environmental resource management and assessment; production and sales of biological materials; research in governmental, industrial, and academic laboratories; as well as preparation for careers in medicine, dentistry, and health-related professions.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span><span class="generated-style"> The advanced degrees of master of science, and doctor of philosophy are offered. For details, see the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 102 Cell Structure &amp; Function</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 103 &amp; BIOS 103L Organismic Biology &amp; Lab</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 205 Genetics, Molecular &amp; Cellular Biology Lab</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 206 General Genetics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 207 Ecology &amp; Evolution</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">An additional 18 hours of elective courses in biological sciences, at least 10 of which must be at the 300 level or above, with at least 3 hours at the 400 level. Students concerned about their preparation for college-level biology should consult their adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">No more than 8 hours may be from courses whose home department is other than biological sciences.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The following courses will NOT count toward the biological sciences major: BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L, BIOS 150, BIOS 160, BIOS 203, BIOS 220, BIOS 222, BIOS 232 or BIOS 280. BIOS 395 Internship is offered Pass/No Pass only and therefore may not be used in the major.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">No minor is required, but biological sciences majors must complete the following ancillary courses in addition to the 36 hours in the major:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 321 </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOC 431</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 113 &amp; CHEM 114 &amp; CHEM 116</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 261 &amp; CHEM 263</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">and</span><span class="generated-style"> one of the following: MATH 107, </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> an approved statistics course </span><span class="list-ital">(choose from STAT 218, EDPS 459, PSYC 350, ECON 215, STAT 380),</span><span class="generated-style"> </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> CSCE 155</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 141 &amp; PHYS 142 </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 212</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Additionally, biological sciences majors are strongly urged to attend the Cedar Point Biological Station for at least one summer session. Majors are also encouraged to do a research project with a faculty member.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> To assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its program, after significantly completing the course work, all majors will be required in their senior year to register for BIOS 99 and complete selected assessment activities.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Results of participation in these assessment activities will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">No biological science course, except BIOS 310, used to fulfill the 36 hours for the major (and 18 hours for the minor) may be taken Pass/No Pass.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">18 hours, comprised of the five-course core: BIOS 102, BIOS 103 &amp; BIOS 103L, BIOS 205, BIOS 206, and BIOS 207</span></li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
