<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Broadcasting</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="broadcasting">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Broadcasting</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Journalism &amp; Mass Communications</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Broadcasting</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Journalism</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes–only for meteorology majors and environmental studies majors with a meteorology emphasis</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Michael Goff</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Hull (emeritus), Lee, Mayeux (emeritus), Renaud, Walklin</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Creighton, McCoy, Spann (emeritus)</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor and General Manager, KRNU-FM Radio:</span><span class="generated-style"> Alloway</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Christensen</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The broadcasting major offers courses leading to a wide variety of careers in the telecommunications industry. Building on a solid base of instruction in radio, television, and online journalism, the major has broadened its curriculum in response to advancing technology and new electronic media. Broadcasting offers courses in news gathering and dissemination, sports reporting, videography, sales, management, programming and other specializations including the use of audio and video on the Internet and the World Wide Web. Courses are designed to develop both a comprehensive understanding of theoretical principles and professional skills. Most courses involve extensive practical laboratory work in addition to classroom lectures and discussions.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">KRNU, a professionally managed FM radio station, is an integral part of the instructional program. With studios in Andersen Hall, KRNU operates year-round and serves an audience of potentially 250,000 persons in the Lincoln area, plus a global audience via the Internet. Student-produced programs aired on KRNU have won many awards in competition with other student groups as well as with commercial stations. Broadcasting students received a Bronze Oscar in the student documentary category for their 2003 production of “Cuba: An Illogical Temple.”</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students have also had success in the national Hearst competition, including the broadcast news national winner in 2006 and several students placing in the top five.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition, students may work and take classes in the studios of the Nebraska Educational Television Network, one of the premier ETV facilities in the nation.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students also produce television newscasts and entertainment programs, which are distributed throughout Lincoln via cable television. The broadcasting program operates two television studios in Andersen Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The broadcasting faculty enjoys an excellent rapport with the industry, and its members are actively involved in professional media organizations, frequently serving in leadership positions. Students are encouraged to further their professional goals through participation in student organizations such as the National Broadcasting Society, Alpha Epsilon Rho, the Society of Professional Journalists, the Radio-Television News Directors Association and other broadcasting entities.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Broadcasting faculty assist students in acquiring internships and professional work experience prior to graduation. Last year more than 100 media-related internships and professional part-time jobs were held by broadcasting majors. Graduates are working for media organizations throughout the nation, often in positions of middle and upper management.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students wishing to major in broadcasting should contact the college office in 147 Andersen Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The broadcasting major is 38 hours with 15 of the hours selected to develop emphasis in either news or production.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All </span><span class="basic-text-bold">broadcasting majors</span><span class="generated-style"> complete JOMC 101, JOMC 162, JOMC 163, JOMC 164, JOMC 165, JOMC 486, and JOMC 487 and 6 hours of electives from advertising, broadcasting or journalism.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Those who pursue a </span><span class="basic-text-bold">news emphasis</span><span class="generated-style"> also complete JOUR 202, JOUR 450 and BRDC 369, BRDC 370 and BRDC 372.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Those who pursue a </span><span class="basic-text-bold">production emphasis</span><span class="generated-style"> additionally complete BRDC 227, BRDC 228, BRDC 359, BRDC 360 and BRDC 362.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Students may complete two majors in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications by completing all requirements for each major; however, the second major in the college will not take the place of a concentration or any of the 80 hours required outside the college.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A broadcasting minor (19 hours) is available only for meteorology majors and environmental studies majors with a meteorology emphasis. These students complete the following required 13 hours: JOMC 163, JOMC 165; BRDC 369, BRDC 370, and BRDC 372.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students also complete 6 elective hours chosen from JOMC 101, JOUR 202 or JOUR 450.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students completing the BRDC minor are not required to complete prerequisite courses shown in the descriptions of the courses above. Students from the College of Arts and Sciences will need to check with their home college to determine whether this minor meets Arts and Sciences’ requirements for a minor.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
