<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Child_Youth &amp; Family Studies Minor</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="child-youth-family-studies-minor">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Child, Youth &amp; Family Studies Minor</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Education &amp; Human Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span><span class="generated-style"> Child, Youth &amp; Family Studies (Minor only)</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Minor only</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 18 </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Child, Youth and Family Studies Minor (18 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CYAF 160 (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CYAF 280 (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Four courses in the Department, two of which must be at the 300 level or above.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Felony and Misdemeanor Convictions</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS), along with the public and private schools and community agencies who provide services or programs for children, are all keenly attuned to the safety of the educational community, and particularly children in the classroom. We have the responsibility to ensure that our students who interact with individuals served by schools or other agencies meet a high level of personal, professional and ethical behavior. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Nebraska Department of Education policy requires that a person with any felony conviction or a misdemeanor conviction involving assault, abuse, neglect, or sexual misconduct shall not be allowed to participate in pre-student teaching laboratory and classroom experiences or student teach without approval of the State Board of Education. To comply with this policy, CEHS will require each student in a teacher education program and students in non-teacher education programs who interact with children in a public agency setting to complete an official Criminal History Background Check through OneSource, the Background Check Company, upon entry into the College.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">If a student does have any felony or any misdemeanor charges or convictions, he/she is required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Field Experience as soon as possible. This meeting will be held so that the student can receive guidance with respect to the impact of the conviction on the student’s future in the College, the State Board of Education approval and, more broadly, on the student’s ability to find success in the profession of education.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Each student who has completed an initial Criminal History Background Check through OneSource, The Background Check Company, will be required to report any new charge or conviction acquired after the initial check, to the director of Field Experiences. Completion of a second official Criminal History Background Check through OneSource, The Background Check Company, will be required prior to the student’s culminating field experience such as student teaching or an internship. Each student is responsible for the cost of the two criminal history reviews. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Education and Human Sciences aims to train and graduate teachers of the highest caliber possible, and therefore, the standards the College sets for its students may be more stringent than the rules the Department of Education sets for field experience. A student should not assume that merely because the State Board of Education would approve placement in the field, that the College is willing to make such a placement, or that a participating partner school is willing to accept the student’s placement into its midst.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The consequences of one conviction compared to another may vary significantly, depending upon the facts underlying the convictions. Those facts are determined by the College. In some instances, the behavior associated with the conviction may be so egregious as to render placement in a field experience virtually impossible. In such instances, termination or long-term suspension from a teaching program may be appropriate. In other instances, a responsible passage of time without further criminal incident may indicate that the student has matured and is ready to reconvene his or her education. Consequences will very likely be different from case to case, as each of these difficult matters is unique. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that the safety of children in the classroom, the best interest of the student, and the reputation of the College, are all recognized and promoted. Failure to honestly disclose a conviction may be cause for disciplinary action separate from the conviction itself. Students willing to honestly address the challenges that arise from the past mistakes are more likely to reach a favorable outcome, than those who further jeopardize their integrity with a lie. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In additional to criminal convictions, other non-criminal behaviors which: involve risks that are unacceptable for future teachers and the children charged to their care; demonstrate a lack of professionalism and good judgment; and evidence a disregard for one’s personal reputation, the integrity of the College and the teaching profession, may bring into question a student’s ability to be successful in an education career. Before engaging in such questionable behavior, students must consider how the College, the profession, educational employer, parents of school-aged children, and the community which is the State of Nebraska, would perceive or evaluate the impact of that behavior with respect to the students’ ability to serve children. To be allowed to teach is a great honor and a great responsibility. Teaching is a profession that requires its potential candidates to be individuals of the highest integrity. Prospective teachers must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and for their students. They serve as important role models and mentors for children during very impressionable years. Teachers are responsible for the education, safety and well-being for anyone in their charge. Indeed, teachers hold the future of all in their care. Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences is most interested in training future teachers who show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act responsibly. These individuals must be able to serve as representatives of our College and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. These standards and practices also apply to individuals in CEHS programs intended to serve children in a community setting.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Should the College, through the reasonable exercise of the judgment of its Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience, determine that a student’s individual behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons and others in the educational community, the College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to deny entry to or dismiss such a student from any program which leads to certification or to service of children in a community agency. More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum, pre-practicum, student teaching or similar field experience, since the interests and safety of the children, and young people present in the classroom, schools and other venues where these practicum experiences take place are paramount.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Problematic behaviors, which the College of Education and Human Sciences reasonably determines renders the candidate a risk to the educational community or demonstrates a likelihood of illegal activity, may be established by any credible means, including the facts surrounding a record of arrests and/or convictions.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Similarly, behaviors which result in a finding by a court or other governmental body that the individual is:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a mentally ill and dangerous person;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">mentally incompetent to stand trial;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">acquitted of criminal charges because of insanity;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an incapacitated person;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a person in need of a guardian or conservator, or;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a person unable to manage his or her property due to mental illness, mental deficiency, or chronic use of drugs or chronic intoxication are the kind of behaviors which are likely to disqualify a candidate from participation in practicum experiences and other College of Education and Human Sciences programs.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Similar to the discussion concerning criminal convictions above, the consequences for unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will very likely be different in each case, due to the unique circumstances involved in each matter. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that safety in the classroom, the reputation of the College, and the best interest of the student, are all recognized and promoted.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Appeal to the Dean</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience with respect to a criminal behavior matter, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing within no greater than ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student’s written appeal shall clearly explain to the Dean the basis for the student’s appeal. The Dean will review the student’s basis for appeal, and is authorized, but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student’s written appeal. The Dean is authorized to collect such additional information as she or he deems necessary to review an investigation (including but not limited to the student’s educational records maintained by the College, other documentation, personal interviews and meetings with the student, College faculty, administration and staff, and others with relevant information). The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possibly, but in no case longer than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience or both, a written decision, which decision shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review within the University of Nebraska.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
