<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Construction Engineering</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="construction-engineering">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Construction Engineering</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Construction Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Construction Engineering @ Omaha</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 129</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Durham School of Architectural Engineering and Construction</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">School Director: Eddy M. Rojas</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Coordinator: </span><span class="generated-style">George Morcous</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Foster, Sires</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bernstein, Bonsell, Goedert, Harmon, Jensen, Schwer</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Lau, Norton, Pedersen</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Construction engineering (CONE) is a program of the Charles W. Durham School of Architectural Engineering and Construction. The construction engineering major integrates engineering, construction, and management courses. This program is designed for persons fulfilling the construction industry’s need for licensed professional engineers. It resembles the construction management program but provides a greater emphasis on engineering, scientific, and technical courses so that requirements for licensure are met. The courses in construction engineering focus on the application of engineering principles to solve real world construction problems.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The educational objective of the construction engineering program is to produce graduates who possess lifelong knowledge acquisition skills enabling them to add value to society throughout their construction careers by applying engineering principles of analysis and design to the constructed environment and using appropriate construction practices including business organization, estimating, scheduling, project delivery, and ethics.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Under the stimulus of increasing demand for its services globally, the construction industry has expanded its technological capabilities pertaining to physical and informational systems. This demand gives the construction engineering graduate an unprecedented number of opportunities for employment and for pursuing an advanced degree.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Construction engineers participate in the preparation of engineering and architectural plans and specifications which they translate into finished projects, such as buildings, bridges, highways, power plants, or other constructed facilities. These projects involve thousands of details shared by a team of owners, architects, engineers, general constructors, specialty constructors, manufacturers, material suppliers, equipment distributors, regulatory bodies and agencies, labor resources, and numerous others. The constructor assumes responsibility for delivery of the completed project at a specified time and cost and also accepts associated legal, financial, and management obligations. Because of the broad scope of the construction engineer’s project responsibility, he/she must assure the project’s ability to be constructed as well as its ability to be operated and sustained.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The construction engineering student is required to enroll into a predetermined set of courses specifically designed for general construction education. Each student selects, with the approval of his/her adviser, a set of approved electives. The program outlined below leads to the bachelor of science degree in construction engineering..</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are required to enroll in a predetermined set of courses specifically designed for general construction education. Each student selects, with the approval of his/her adviser, a set of approved electives. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">First Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CONE 103 Intro to Construction Engineering 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 155E Computer Science I: Systems Engineering Focus 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Second Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 130 Computer-aided Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 221 General Physics Lab 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, or 9.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Third Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 221 Geometric Control Systems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 223 Engineering Statics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fourth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 325 Mechanics of Elastic Bodies 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 373 Engineering Dynamics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 206 Engineering Economy I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, or 9.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fifth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 310 Fluid Mechanics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 341 Intro to Structural Engineering 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CONE 2410 Construction Methods &amp; Equipment 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CONE 378/3780 Construction Estimating I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 380 Statistics &amp; Applications 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Sixth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 334 Intro to Geotechnical Engineering 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 378 Materials of Construction 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 211 Elements of Electrical Engineering 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, or 9.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Seventh Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 440 Reinforced Concrete Design I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CONE 414 Accident Prevention in Construction 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CONE 476 Project Budgets &amp; Controls 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CONE 485 Construction Planning, Scheduling, &amp; Controls 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Technical Design Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Electives 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, or 9.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Eighth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 441 Steel Design I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CONE 489 Construction Engineering Capstone Course 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BLAW 371 Legal Environment 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CONE–Design Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Electives 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose two courses from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, or 9.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 18</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All course work must be of “C” grade level or higher to be credited toward graduation requirements or to be valid as a prerequisite for another course.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Electives–Technical and Design</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CONE 416 Wood &amp;/or Contemporary Materials Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CONE 417 Formwork Systems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CONE 466/866 Heavy &amp;/or Civil Estimating 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CONE 481/881 Highway &amp; Bridge Construction 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CONE 483/883 Support of Excavation 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CONE 485 Construction Planning, Scheduling, &amp; Controls 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CONE 498 Special Projects 1-6</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Substitutions and Suggestions </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 222 is an acceptable substitute if taken with PHYS 212.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Suitable equivalent probability and statistics courses can be substituted with the approval of the student’s adviser.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Suitable technical electives selected with concurrence of adviser selected from the following: EMEC 4480, EMEC 4600, EMEC 4800; MENG 2000, MENG 4200 and their UNL equivalents. Other College of Engineering courses approved by the student’s adviser can satisfy this requirement.</span></li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
