<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Construction Management Minor</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="construction-management-minor">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name">Construction Management Minor</p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering </p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Construction Management (Minor only) </p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 27</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
				<p class="title-2">This minor is for engineering majors ONLY.</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph">The College of Engineering enables its students to participate in this approved minor subject to the following conditions:</p>
				<p class="list">1. A minor will not reduce or alter the existing course or degree requirements for students electing to pursue a minor.</p>
				<p class="list">2. A student’s minor program must be organized and approved by an adviser prior to the submission of the senior check to the department chair or head.</p>
				<p class="list">3. The minor must be approved by the adviser, the department chair or head, the Dean and the cognizant program offering the minor.</p>
				<p class="list">4. The College of Engineering will follow the “Plan A/B” format of the Arts and Sciences College in which a student pursuing a single minor must complete the “Plan A” requirements. A student pursuing a double (or greater) minor must fulfill either the “Plan A” or “Plan B” requirements for both minors depending on which plan is offered by the cognizant department.</p>
				<p class="list">5. Minors on the Lincoln or Omaha campuses may be added by approval of the College of Engineering Curriculum Committee and faculty.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A only.</span> All courses must be taken for a letter grade.</p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Required Courses 27</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BLAW 372 Business Law I 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 112 Construction Communications 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 241 Construction Methods &amp; Equipment I 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 305 Building Environmental Technical Systems I 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 378 Construction Estimating I 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 379 Construction Estimating II 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 480 Productivity &amp; Human Factors in Construction 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CNST 485 Construction Planning, Scheduling &amp; Controls 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MNGT 360 Managing Behavior in Organizations 3</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
