<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Construction Management</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="construction-management">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Construction Management</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Construction Management</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Construction Management</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 123</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Durham School of Architectural Engineering and Construction</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">School Director: Eddy M. Rojas</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Program Coordinator:</span><span class="generated-style"> Paul Harmon</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Berryman</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Fischer, Grosskopf, Harmon, Jensen, Stentz, Wentz</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Shen</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Construction is the largest and most diversified industry in the country, accounting for approximately 10 percent of the gross national product. The key professional in this vast enterprise is the “constructor”, a term given to the leaders and managers in the construction industry, having the responsibility for planning, scheduling, and building the projects designed by architects and engineers. These highly specialized efforts are indispensable in meeting the country’s growing need for new structures and environmental control projects.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Construction firms vary in size from large corporations to small proprietorships and partnerships. These are often classified according to the kind of construction work they do: general contractors, heavy and highway contractors, specialty contractors including mechanical and electrical, and residential builders and developers. Many firms engage in more than one category of work. Some larger companies incorporate the architectural and engineering design functions as part of their activity as a design/build firm. Collectively, Constructors build our entire man-made environment–buildings for housing, commerce, industry, and government; transportation services including highways, railroads, waterways, and airports; municipal service facilities and utilities, such as power plants and energy distribution systems; military bases and space center complexes. Thus the construction management field is broad and challenging, requiring a unique educational background for its professional practitioners.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Educational standards and criteria for construction education are established by the American Council for Construction Education (ACCE) which is the accrediting agency for construction education programs at all levels. The program at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, having met these standards and criteria, is currently fully accredited by ACCE.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Although the range of construction activities appears wide and diverse, the general educational requirements for construction management are universal regardless of a particular firm’s area of specialization. Since construction is primarily a business enterprise, the graduate must have a sound background in business management and administration areas, as well as an understanding of the fundamentals of architecture and engineering as they relate to the project design itself as well as to the actual construction process in the field. Professional expertise lies in the fields of construction science, methods, and management. A working knowledge of structural design, mechanical and electrical systems, soil mass behavior, and construction equipment is also essential.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The construction management curriculum embraces a course of study in specifications, contractual agreements, labor relations, personnel management, materials, methods, and work analysis techniques. Technical and humanity electives provide for a well-rounded education that leads to a challenging career in the construction industry.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students interested in obtaining a degree in civil engineering and construction management are advised to enroll in civil engineering. Because some civil engineering courses require prerequisites beyond those required for similar construction management courses, students should obtain a civil engineering degree first. While in civil engineering, they will be advised by an adviser familiar with the construction management curriculum. After completing requirements for the civil engineering degree, the student will move to the construction management department to complete the requirements for the second degree in construction management.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for the Degree (Lincoln campus)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Construction management students must pass all courses offered within the College of Engineering and all math and science courses with a grade of “C” or higher. Students must complete 28 semester hours or be classified as a sophomore before applying for admission to the construction management degree program. In addition, all seniors must take a program exit examination along with the American Institute of Constructors’ Level I examination before graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">First Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 131 Intro to the Construction Industry 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 151 Writing: Rhetoric as Argument 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">GEOL 101 Physical Geology 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, or 9.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Second Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 112 Construction Communications 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JGEN 200 Technical Communications I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">STAT 218 Intro to Statistics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, or 9.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Science Elective with Lab 4-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 or CHEM 111 or CHEM 113; or PHYS 151 and PHYS 153. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16-17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Third Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CIVE 221 Geometric Control Systems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 241 Construction Methods &amp; Equipment I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 252 Construction Materials &amp; Testing 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 220 Statics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fourth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 242 Construction Equipment &amp; Methods II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 251 Construction Materials &amp; Specifications 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 324 Strength of Materials 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fifth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 306 Survey of Accounting 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 331 Architectural Structures I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 305 Building Environmental Technical Systems I (ARCH 333) 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 378 Construction Estimating I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 360 Managing Behavior in Organizations 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Sixth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ARCH 332 Architectural Structures II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 306 Physical Environmental Systems II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 379 Construction Estimating II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">FINA 361 Finance </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> IMSE 206 Engineering Economy I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Technical Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Seventh Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BLAW 371 Legal Environment 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 476 Project Budgets &amp; Controls 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 480 Productivity &amp; Human Factors in Construction 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 485 Construction Planning, Scheduling, &amp; Controls 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Technical Electives 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Eighth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 420 Professional Practice &amp; Ethics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CNST 489 Senior Construction Project 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Construction Management Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, or 9.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Technical Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Credit Hours Required 123-124</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
