<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Czech Minor</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="czech-minor">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Czech Minor</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Czech (Minor only)</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Minor only</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 6</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Mila Saskova-Pierce</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Evelyn Jacobson,</span><span class="generated-style"> 1111 Oldfather Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Vice Chair: </span><span class="generated-style">Radha Balasubramanian</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Carr, Hayden-Roy, E. Jacobson, Pereira, Stump, Turner</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Balasubramanian, Brantner, Gonzáles, Kalisa, Mejias-Bikandi, Saskova-Pierce, Shirer</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Amano, González-Allende, Guevara, Lorenzo</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Emeriti Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Fouletier-Smith, M. Jacobson, Martinez, Nickel, Wilhelmsen</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department of Modern Languages and Literatures offers courses in German, Japanese, the Romance Language group (French, Spanish), and the Slavic group (Czech, Russian). Whenever possible, the courses are conducted in the language that is studied. The aim of instruction is reading, writing, aural and oral proficiency, and an understanding of the life, literature, and culture of the country. Lectures and films in the language studied are offered during the school year for the benefit of the students in the department. Language laboratories supplement class work.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Placement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Incoming students who wish to enter the University’s language program in French, Spanish, and German are required to take the Computer Assisted Placement Examination (CAPE). The results of the placement exam, together with training in a secondary school, university, or other prior second language environments, will assist students in finding the level at which they will have the greatest opportunity for success. The examination results will be used in combination with advising to determine appropriate placement in the sequence of courses offered within the department’s curriculum. CAPE is administered in the language laboratory (302 Burnett Hall). Those students exempted from this requirement are expected to enroll in a first semester elementary course (101). Students qualifying for this exemption are defined as follows:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Students with no previous second language exposure whatsoever.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Students whose second language exposure amounts to one year or less at the U.S. high school level.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Students who wish to begin study of a new language other than those previously studied.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Foreign language placement guidelines are generally determined by the following criteria for students who come to the University with:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. One semester of a language in high school should take 101 (same language or a new one);</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Two or three semesters in high school should take 102 (same language);</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Four or five semesters in high school should take 201;</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Six semesters in high school should take 202;</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Eight semesters or more in high school should take 203.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The department participates in the following interdisciplinary study programs: European Studies, Institute for Ethnic Studies, International Studies, Judaic Studies, Latin American Studies, Medieval and Renaissance Studies, and Women’s and Gender Studies. See the index for a guide to these programs.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students may receive full credit at the University of Nebraska for study abroad programs in many countries, among these are Costa Rica, France, Germany, Spain, Mexico, Russia, Japan, and the Czech Republic. See the index for a guide to these programs.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Auditing.</span><span class="generated-style"> Audits are allowed in 101 in French, German and Spanish only upon recommendation of the Modern Language Placement Advisers. Otherwise no audits are allowed in 100- and 200-level classes.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Literature in Translation</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department offers the following literature in translation courses for which no knowledge of a foreign language is necessary. Check the </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Schedule of Classes</span><span class="generated-style"> to determine which are being taught in any given semester: MODL 234D Major Themes in World Literature; MODL 298, MODL 398 Special Topics; FREN 282 and GERM 282 Literature in Translation; SPAN 264 and SPAN 265 Spanish-American Literature in Translation I &amp; II; MODL/GERM 442/842 Survey of Medieval German Literature in Translation; and RUSS 482 and RUSS 483 Russian Literature in Translation I &amp; II.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span><span class="generated-style"> The advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy are offered in French, German, and Spanish. For details, see the </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span><span class="generated-style">.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Czech offers a Plan B minor only.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan B.</span><span class="generated-style"> 6 hours in one language, in courses numbered above 300.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Pass/No Pass.</span><span class="generated-style"> No courses in the department may be taken by students majoring or minoring in modern languages for Pass/No Pass credit.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
