<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Electronics Engineering (Omaha)</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="electronics-engineering-omaha-">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Electronics Engineering (Omaha)</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Electronics Engineering (Lincoln)</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Electronics Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 133</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Dr. Bing Chen</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The electronics engineering program is administered by the Department of Computer and Electronics Engineering (CEEN) and the bachelor of science degree program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org.</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bing Chen, PKI 200</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Chen, Sharif, Wysocki</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Ci, Jang, Nguyen, Peng, Sash</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Qian, Yang</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Senior Lecturers:</span><span class="generated-style"> Detloff, Gilmore</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Phone:</span><span class="generated-style"> 402-554-2288</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">FAX:</span><span class="generated-style"> 402-554-2289</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website:</span><span class="generated-style"> http://ceen.unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Email: </span><span class="generated-style">bchen1@unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Mission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The mission of the Department of Computer and Electronics Engineering (CEEN) at the University of Nebraska is to develop and maintain programs of excellence in teaching and research which meet the educational needs of its constituents, which will support the state of Nebraska in its development as a leading center for high-technology computer/electronics/telecommunications industry and which will support national needs for well-educated computer and electronics engineering professionals.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Program Educational Objectives</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department’s Program Educational Objectives are a statement of what its graduates are doing or are capable of doing three to five years after graduation. The students in the electronics engineering program receive a strong foundation in engineering science and design that will enable them to pursue productive careers in not only the computer engineering field, but can also be used as the foundation for careers in other areas such as business, management, and medicine. Typical industries in which the electronics engineering graduate would be employed could include those in communication systems, telecommunication networks, analog systems, hardware/software integration, and digital and microprocessor systems.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The CEEN department’s Program Educational Objectives for the electronics engineering program are that our graduates will:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Be employed in industries doing work utilizing the education and skills attained through their undergraduate engineering program</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Be able to function on teams with multidisciplinary aspects</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Participate in lifelong learning</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Exhibit competency in communication skills</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Have an ethical approach to engineering practice.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">These Program Educational Objectives were developed with input from the program’s educational objectives constituency consisting of employers (including CEEN Industry Advisory Board), graduates of the program, and faculty of the department.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The individual holding this degree will have advanced knowledge in his or her field of engineering interest and in addition will have a university educational background involving mathematics, the physical sciences, and the humanities and social sciences. The curriculum has a strong focus in telecommunications engineering. Completion of this program will enable the graduate to enter employment in positions involving telecommunications engineering design, analog circuit design, telecommunications network performance analysis, and technical management of telecommunications networks. The program also leads to the preparation for graduate work in electronics engineering or electrical engineering.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">General Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Advisement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Upon entry into the curriculum, each student will be assigned a faculty academic adviser. It is required that the student meet with the adviser prior to each class registration period and that all courses to be applied toward the degree be selected with the advice and approval of the adviser. Students are expected to have their academic records reviewed and obtain approval from the department prior to application to the University registrar for award of the degree in order to insure that all curricular requirements will be satisfied by the time of intended graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Curriculum</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Because of the rapid developments in the fields of computer engineering and electronics engineering, the curricular requirements are continually reviewed and upgraded to reflect technological advances. Curricular sequence and course descriptions contained herein are intended to serve as general guidelines. Contact the department for information on any changes to the requirements that are currently in effect but not listed in this catalog. Currently enrolled students are expected to modify their programs to take advantage of such revisions. Students who do not maintain continuous progress toward the degree through enrollment in applicable course work will be considered as new students upon reentering the computer or electronics engineering curricular sequence and will be subject to the requirements of the curriculum current at the time of their reentry. Certain courses may not be valid as prerequisites or as credit toward the degree after two academic years; the student’s academic adviser should be consulted regarding applicability.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The department maintains a high standard of excellence in meeting its objective of providing the student with extensive experience in the fields of computer engineering and electronics engineering. The development of both hardware and software and the knowledge of the interrelationship of these areas is enhanced through the extensive use of laboratory equipment. The applicable University bulletins and College academic policies must be followed for the areas of humanities and social sciences to ensure that such enrollments satisfy the campus general education requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Senior Thesis</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The capstone senior thesis requirement provides a unique and challenging opportunity for the undergraduate student to demonstrate his/her ability to apply the knowledge gained in the course work sequence to the planning, design, execution, testing and reporting of a significant project in the applications of engineering principles. The initiative and responsibility expected of the student executing the senior thesis parallel the expectations of the employer of the program graduate. After faculty approval of the thesis topic, each student is assigned to a faculty senior thesis adviser who will supervise the execution of the work.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Electives</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Computer engineering and electronic engineering courses which are described in the catalog but are not shown as requirements in the semester sequences are offered as the need arises to provide co-interest areas wherein the students may broaden their background in the applications of computer engineering or electronics engineering. In addition, appropriate specified technical electives will be selected to augment the student’s particular area of interest. The applicability of transfer course work with engineering content toward credit in the curriculum is determined on a case-by-case basis by the department.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The credit hours in the curriculum designated as free electives are those courses that the student may choose to enhance personal objectives in his/her academic plan. Free electives must be selected with the approval of his/her departmental adviser and may not duplicate the content of curricular requirements nor be of a remedial nature.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Special Interest Areas</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Opportunities are provided for the development of areas of special interest through enrollment in the Individual Study in Computer and Electronics Engineering courses which are offered at the freshman through senior level for the student who may wish to develop a topic under the guidance of a department faculty member. Enrollment is by permission after the department chair has approved a written proposal. Special Topics in Computer and Electronics Engineering classes also are offered by the department as the need arises to cover topics needing emphasis as a result of the rapidly developing fields of computer engineering and electronics engineering. Academic advisers should be consulted regarding the particular topics to be covered and the necessary prerequisites for each offering of this course.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who expect to continue their education at the graduate level after the award of the baccalaureate degree should consult their adviser regarding course selections that would enhance that objective.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are encouraged to develop their professional and leadership potential through participation in student chapters of related professional organizations and in University extracurricular activities. Participation in the University Honors Program is encouraged for those who qualify.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Typical Schedule</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">First Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 103 Computer &amp; Electronics Engineering Fundamentals 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 155A or E Computer Science I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 151 Writing: Rhetoric as Argument 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Second Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 106 Microprocessor Applications 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 225 Computer &amp; Electronics Engineering Seminar 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 221 General Physics Lab I 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">COMM 109 Fundamentals of Human Communication 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Third Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 213 Electrical Circuits I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 218 Electrical Circuits Lab 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 314 Applied Linear Algebra (Matrix Theory) 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fourth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 214 Electrical Circuits II 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 222 Electronic Circuits I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 313 Switching Circuit Theory 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGRL 300 Technical Writing 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fifth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 328 Applied Fields &amp; Lines I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 352 Electronic Circuits II 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 380 Statistics &amp; Applications 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective SLO 5 &amp; 6 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Sixth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 325 Communications Systems 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 355 Signals &amp; Linear Systems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 361 Data &amp; Telecommunications Transceivers 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective SLO 7 &amp; 8 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Seventh Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 463 Digital Communications Media 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 466 Telecommunication Engineering I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 496 Senior Thesis Proposal 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 469 Tech, Science &amp; Civ 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Specified Technical Elective** 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Free Elective* 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Eighth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CEEN 499 Senior Thesis 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Specified Technical Elective** 8</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective SLO 9 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Free Elective* 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">* Free electives cannot be lower than an entry level required course, remedial, or duplicate the content of another course</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">** At least 8 hours of the Specified Technical Electives must be CEEN courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Credit Hours Required 133</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All course work must be of “C” grade level or higher to be credited toward graduation requirements or to be valid as a prerequisite for another course.</span></li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
