<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Environmental Studies (ASC)</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="environmental-studies-asc-">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Environmental Studies (ASC)</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Environmental Studies</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Sara Cooper</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Dave Gosselin,</span><span class="generated-style"> 150A Hardin Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chief Undergraduate Adviser and Academic Coordinator: Sara Cooper, </span><span class="generated-style">149 Hardin Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Web site:</span><span class="generated-style"> esp.unl.edu</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The environmental studies major is designed for students who want to make a difference and contribute to solving current as well as future environmental challenges on a local to global scale. Solutions to such problems as climate change, pollution, and resource conservation require individuals who have a broad-based knowledge in the natural sciences, social sciences, and the humanities as well as strength in a specific discipline. The Environmental Studies program uses a holistic approach and a framework of sustainability. This framework recognizes the necessity of meeting current resource needs without compromising the environment and the ability of future generations to meet their needs. The environmental studies major provides students with a degree and the skills to work across disciplines and to be competitive in the job market. Students will acquire a broad-based education in the physical, biological, and social sciences and develop competency in a specific discipline.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students may select a BS or BA track through the College of Arts and Sciences or a BS track through the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources. The degree program consists of four required components:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Every major must complete the set of environmental studies core courses that provide breadth in the scientific and human dimensions of environmental issues and challenges (ENVR 201 and ENVR 249). In addition, students will have the opportunity to interact and work with individuals and organizations involved in environmental issues within the community (ENVR 319).</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Students also complete a set of general collateral course requirements in the natural sciences (biology, chemistry and physics), Earth systems, geospatial sciences, mathematics, statistics, and in the humanities and social sciences (Human Dimension). These requirements provide students the opportunity to explore Earth and Ecological Systems: Understand the structure, function, and interaction among Earth’s four major spheres: land, water, living things, and air in the context of the physical, geological, and biological processes as well as human influences and their variability over space and time. These requirements also provide students with an opportunity to learn about the human dimensions of environmental challenges that involve law, politics, ethics, economics, historical setting, cultural diversity public policy, decision-making, and risk assessment at local to global scales with emphasis on environmentally sustainable development. In addition, students will use and apply relevant field, laboratory, geospatial, and social science research methods, tools and technologies to address environmental challenges in an ethical manner.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. After 52 hours of course work, majors are strongly encouraged to complete an individual course of study plan in collaboration with the environmental studies academic adviser and/or director that specifically defines an emphasis area that will provide depth in one of the following areas: anthropology, biology, chemistry, geography, geology, meteorology-climatology, political science, or sociology (through the College of Arts and Sciences); or applied climate science or natural resources (through the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources).</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. After earning 88 credit hours, students must complete a “capstone” senior thesis (ENVR 499) with permission of the program director and under the guidance of a faculty adviser with expertise in their chosen area of emphasis.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The environmental studies program has an elective internship course (ENVR 497) which provides the opportunity to gain work experience in an off-campus setting related to a student’s academic and career objectives. Advanced students are encouraged to explore this possibility with the adviser in their area of emphasis and with the Program Director.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students interested in majoring in environmental studies through the College of Arts and Sciences are advised to make an initial appointment with the program or academic adviser. Those interested in pursuing a natural resources emphasis or applied climate science emphasis should see the program director also. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Once a student has selected an area of emphasis, advising regarding the emphasis will be done through the appropriate department. However, the program director will continue to be the student’s degree adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students interested in obtaining a minor in environmental studies needs to visit with the environmental studies academic adviser to establish a course of study plan that consists of course work relevant to students interests and goals.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">1. Environmental Studies Core (BS and BA Degrees) Total Credit Hours: 12 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENVR 101 Environmental Studies Orientation (1 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENVR 201 Science, Systems, Environment &amp; Sustainability (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENVR 249 Individual &amp; Cultural Perspectives on the Environment (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENVR 319 Environmental Engagement &amp; the Community (2 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENVR 499A Environmental Studies Senior Thesis I (1 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENVR 499B Environmental Studies Senior Thesis II (2 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="requirement-ital">ENVR 499A &amp; ENVR 499B are the capstone courses for environmental studies majors. ENVR 499H (3 cr) is the capstone course for UNL Honors Students.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">2a. Collateral Courses (BS Degree) Total Credit Hours: 43-46</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">2a and 2b. NOTE: See Emphasis Area for Mathematics and Natural Sciences Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Earth Systems 13-15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> 3-4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">NRES 104 Climate in Crisis (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">METR 200 Weather &amp; Climate (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">NRES 208 Applied Climate Sciences (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> 3-4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">NRES 108 Earth’s Natural Resource Systems Lab (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENSC 110 Energy in Perspective (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOL 101 Physical Geology (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOL 106 Environmental Geology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOL 125 Frontiers in Antarctic Geosciences (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 155 Elements of Physical Geography (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 181 Quality of the Environment (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SOIL 153 Soil Resources 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENVR 189H Humans, Water &amp; the Environment (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">WATS 281 Intro to Water Science (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Geospatial Science 3-4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">NRES 312 Intro to Geospatial Information Sciences (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">NRES 412 Intro to Geographic Information Systems (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">NRES 418 Intro to Remote Sensing (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Statistics 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">STAT 218 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(or equivalent)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Students cannot receive UNL credit for both MATH 203 and STAT 218. Students who transfer STAT 218 credit to UNL will not receive UNL credit for MATH 203.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Human Dimensions 24</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 446 Environmental Sociology 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 473 Ecological Anthropology 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Students work with adviser to select courses in the areas of: Ethics &amp; Law 6 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 225 Environmental Ethics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 388 Ethics in Agriculture &amp; Natural Resources (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 203 Bioethics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 357 Natural Resource &amp; Environmental Law (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 457 Water Law (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 456 Environmental Law (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Resource Management and Leadership 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">NRES 423 Integrated Resources Management (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">NRES 475 Water Quality Strategy (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 410 Environmental Leadership (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 202 Leadership Development in Small Groups and Teams (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">COMM 371 Communication in Negotiation &amp; Conflict Resolution (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CRPL 470 Environmental Planning &amp; Policy (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Selected courses can also meet ACE areas 8 and 9.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Economics and Policy 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">NRES 323 Natural Resources Policy </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> CRPL 470 Environmental Planning &amp; Policy </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> AECN 357 Natural Resource &amp; Environmental law 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span><span class="generated-style">ECON 211 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ECON 212 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> AECN 141 3</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">2b. Collateral Courses (BA Degree) Total Credit Hours: 46-49</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Same collateral courses as in 2a plus 3 credits in the area of Public Speaking and Education. This requirement is in addition to ACE 2. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Public Speaking and Education 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">COMM 109 Fundamentals of Human Communication</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">COMM 209 Public Speaking</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">EDPS 250 Fundamentals of Child Development for Education</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">EDPS 251 Fundamentals of Adolescent Development for Education</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 305 Presentation Strategies for Agricultural Audiences</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 400 Overview to Program Planning</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 413 Program Development</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">3. Emphasis Areas (BS or BA Degree) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Anthropology – BA</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Applied Climate Science </span><span class="list-ital">(Only available through the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Biological Sciences – BS</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry – BS</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Geography – BA and BS</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Geology – BS</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Meteorology-Climatology – BS</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Natural Resources </span><span class="list-ital">(Only available through the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Political Science – BA and BS</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Sociology – BS and BA</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required to participate in several assessment activities throughout their program of study.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Results of participation in this assessment activity will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Anthropology Emphasis (BA Degree) Total Credit Hours: 35-41</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Anthropology Emphasis Area Courses 18-19 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Required:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 110 Intro to Anthropology 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 473 Ecological Anthropology 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 482 Research Methods in Anthropology 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 212 Intro to Cultural Anthropology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 232 Intro to Prehistory (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 242 Intro to Physical Anthropology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 374 Primate Behavior &amp; Ecology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 430 Nutritional Anthropology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 474 Applied &amp; Development Anthropology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 350 Peoples &amp; Cultures of Native Latin America (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 351 Indigenous Peoples of North America (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 352 Indigenous Peoples of the Great Plains (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 362 Peoples &amp; Cultures of Africa (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 366 Peoples &amp; Cultures of East Asia (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics 3-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 103 College Algebra &amp; Trigonometry (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 104 Calculus for Managerial &amp; Social Sciences (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 14-17 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Biology 7-8 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 103 Organismic Biology (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from: </span><span class="generated-style">BIOS 220 &amp; BIOS 222 Principles of Ecology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 232 Ecological Issues in the Great Plains (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from: </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 105 Chemistry in Context I (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 113 Fundamental Chemistry I (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Physics 3-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from: </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 115 Descriptive Physics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 141 Elementary General Physics I (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 151 Elements of Physics (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MSYM 109 Physical Principles in Agriculture (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">College Distribution Requirements, ACE Requirements + Free Electives 23-32 </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Biological Sciences Emphasis (BS Degree) Total Credit Hours: 47-48 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Biological Sciences Emphasis Area Courses 24</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 102 Cell Structure &amp; Function 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 103 Organismic Biology 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 205 Genetics, Molecular and Cellular Biology Lab 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 206 General Genetics 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 207 Ecology and Evolution 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Choose at least 6 credit hours of 300 or 400 level biology courses 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> MATH 106B Calculus I for Biology &amp; Medicine</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 18-19 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry 8-9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 General Chemistry I &amp; II (8 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 113 &amp; CHEM 114 Fundamental Chemistry I &amp; II &amp; Lab (CHEM 116) (9 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Physics 10</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> PHYS 141 &amp; PHYS 142 Elementary Physics I &amp; II (10 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 212 General Physics I &amp; II &amp; Labs (PHYS 221/PHYS 222) (10 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">College Distribution Requirements, ACE Requirements + Free Electives 19-23 </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry Emphasis (BS Degree) Total Credit Hours: 48-52</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry Emphasis Area Courses 21-24</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Required (select one:)</span><span class="generated-style"> 9-12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 General Chemistry I &amp; II &amp; CHEM 221 Elementary Quantitative Analysis (12 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 113 &amp; CHEM 114 Fundamental Chemistry I &amp; II &amp; CHEM 116 Quantitative Chemistry Lab (9 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Choose at least 12 additional credit hours of chemistry courses </span><span class="requirement-ital">(excluding CHEM 131, CHEM 195, CHEM 396 &amp; CHEM 399)</span><span class="generated-style"> 12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics </span><span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">(ACE 3)</span><span class="generated-style"> 10</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 17-18 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Biology 7-8</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 103 Organismic Biology (4 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 220 &amp; BIOS 222 Principles of Ecology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 232 Ecological Issues in the Great Plains (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Physics 10</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> PHYS 141 &amp; PHYS 142 Elementary Physics I &amp; II (10 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 212 General Physics I &amp; II &amp; Labs (PHYS 221/PHYS 222) (10 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">College Distribution Requirements, ACE Requirements + Free Electives 15-22</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Geography Emphasis (BA Degree) Total Credit Hours: 38-43</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Geography Emphasis Area Courses 21</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 181 Quality of the Environment 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">A total of 18 credits with at least one course from A, B, and C 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">A. Human Geography</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 120 Introductory Economic Geography (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 140 Introductory Human Geography (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 271 Geography of the United States (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 272 Geography of World Regions (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 283 Space, the Environment &amp; You (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 334 Historical Geography of the Great Plains (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 375 Geography of Asia (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 447 Political Geography (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">B. Physical Geography</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 155 Elements of Physical Geography (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOL 450 Surficial Processes (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 484 Water Resources Seminar (1 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 498 Advanced Special Problems (1-24 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">METR 408 Microclimate: The Biological Environment (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">METR 475 Physical Climatology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">C. Geographic Techniques</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 317 Cartography I: Intro to Cartography (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 412 Intro to Geographic Information Systems (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 414 Quantitative Methods in Geography (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 418 Intro to Remote Sensing (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 419 Applications of Remote Sensing in Agriculture &amp; Natural Resources (4 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics 3-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 103 College Algebra &amp; Trigonometry (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 104 Calculus for Managerial &amp; Social Sciences (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 14-17 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Biology 7-8 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 103 Organismic Biology (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 220 &amp; BIOS 222 Principles of Ecology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 232 Ecological Issues in the Great Plains (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 105 Chemistry in Context I (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 113 Fundamental Chemistry I (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Physics 3-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 115 Descriptive Physics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 141 Elementary General Physics I (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 151 Elements of Physics (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MSYM 109 Physical Principles in Agriculture (4 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">College Distribution Requirements, ACE Requirements + Free Electives 21-29</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Geography Emphasis (BS Degree) Total Credit Hours: 46-48</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Geography Emphasis Area Courses 21</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 181 Quality of the Environment 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">A total of 18 credits with at least one course from A, B, and C listed above (under the BA degree) 18 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics: 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 20-22 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Biology 7-8</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 103 Organismic Biology (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 220 &amp; BIOS 222 Principles of Ecology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 232 Ecological Issues in the Great Plains (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry 8-9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 109 &amp; 110 General Chemistry I &amp; II (8 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 113 &amp; 114 Fundamental Chemistry I &amp; II &amp; Lab (CHEM 116) (9 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Physics 5 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> PHYS 141 Elementary Physics I (5 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 221 General Physics I &amp; Lab (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">College Distribution Requirements, ACE Requirements + Free Electives 19-24</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Geology Emphasis (BS degree) Total Credit Hours: 53-54 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Geology Emphasis Area Courses 22</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style"> Requirements are the same as a minor in geology – 22 credits with only 8 credits at the 100 level.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics 10</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 21-22</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Biology 7-8</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 103 Organismic Biology (4 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 220 &amp; BIOS 222 Principles of Ecology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 232 Ecological Issues in the Great Plains (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 109 General Chemistry I (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 113 Fundamental Chemistry I (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Physics 10 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> PHYS 141 &amp; PHYS 142 Elementary Physics I &amp; II (10 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 212 General Physics I &amp; II &amp; Labs (PHYS 221/PHYS 222) (10 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">College Distribution Requirements, ACE Requirements + Free Electives 13-17</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Meteorology–Climatology Emphasis (BS Degree) Total Credit Hours: 49-51</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Requirements are the same as a minor for meteorology–climatology.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Meteorology Emphasis (40 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Meteorology Emphasis Area Courses 22</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">METR 200 Weather &amp; Climate 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">METR 205 Intro to Atmospheric Science 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">METR 311 Dynamic Meteorology I 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">METR 323 Physical Meteorology 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">METR 341 Synoptic Meteorology 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">Plus one METR class at the 400 level 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics 10</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Physics 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 212 General Physics I &amp; II &amp; Lab (PHYS 221) 9</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Climatology Emphasis (32 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Climatology Emphasis Area Courses 23</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">METR 200 Weather &amp; Climate 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">METR 205 Introduction to Atmospheric Science 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">METR 370 Basic &amp; Applied Climatology 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">METR 475 Physical Climatology 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 9 hours from:</span><span class="generated-style"> 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">NRES 408 Microclimate: The Biological Environment (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">METR 443 Severe Storms Meteorology-Climatology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">METR 450 Climate &amp; Society (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">METR 454 Statistical Analysis of Atmospheric Data (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">METR 487 Earth’s Climate: Past, Present, Future (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">METR 498 Special Topics in Meteorology-Climatology (1-24 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Physics 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 221 General Physics I &amp; Lab 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 11-12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Applies to both Climatology and Meteorology Emphasis Areas</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Biology 7-8</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 101 &amp; 101L General Biology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 103 Organismic Biology (4 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 220 &amp; BIOS 222 Principles of Ecology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 232 Ecological Issues in the Great Plains (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 109 General Chemistry I (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 113 Fundamental Chemistry I (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">College Distribution Requirements, ACE Requirements + Free Electives 16-21</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Political Science Emphasis in Environmental Studies (BA Degree) Total Credit Hours: 35-40</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Political Science Courses 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Requirements are the same as a minor in Political Science – 18 credits including POLS 100 and at least one course at the 400 level.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics 3-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 103 College Algebra &amp; Trigonometry (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 104 Calculus for Managerial &amp; Social Sciences (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytical Geometry &amp; Calculus I (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 14-17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Biology 7-8</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 103 Organismic Biology (4 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 220 &amp; BIOS 222 Principles of Ecology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 232 Ecological Issues in the Great Plains (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 105 Chemistry in Context I (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or </span><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 113 Fundamental Chemistry I (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Physics 3-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> PHYS 115 Descriptive Physics (3 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> PHYS 141 Elementary General Physics I (5 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> PHYS 151 Elements of Physics (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> MSYM 109 Physical Principles in Agriculture (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">College Distribution Requirements, ACE Requirements + Free Electives 21-29</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Political Science Emphasis in Environmental Studies (BS Degree) Total Credit Hours: 43-45</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Political Science Courses 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Requirements are the same as a minor in Political Science – 18 credits including POLS 100 and at least one course at the 400 level.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytical Geometry &amp; Calculus I (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 20-22</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Biology 7-8</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 103 Organismic Biology (4 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 220 &amp; BIOS 222 Principles of Ecology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 232 Ecological Issues in the Great Plains (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry 8-9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 105 &amp; CHEM 106 Chemistry in Context I &amp; II (8 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or </span><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 General Chemistry I &amp; II (8 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM 113 &amp; CHEM 114 Fundamental Chemistry I &amp; II &amp; Lab (CHEM 116) (9 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Physics 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> PHYS 141 Elementary Physics I (5 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 221 General Physics I &amp; Lab (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">College Distribution Requirements, ACE Requirements + Free Electives 19-24</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Sociology Emphasis (BA Degree) Total Credit Hours: 38-43</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Sociology Emphasis Area Courses 21</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Require SOCI 205 (3 hrs) plus meet the requirements of the minor in sociology – 18 hours including SOCI 101. No more than 3 hours total from internship and independent study courses, SOCI 397 and/or independent study SOCI 399 may count toward the minor requirements in sociology.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics 3-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from: </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 103 College Algebra &amp; Trigonometry (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 104 Calculus for Managerial &amp; Social Sciences (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 14-17 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Biology 7-8 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 103 Organismic Biology (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 220 &amp; BIOS 222 Principles of Ecology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 232 Ecological Issues in the Great Plains (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 105 Chemistry in Context I (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 113 Fundamental Chemistry I (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Physics 3-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 115 Descriptive Physics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 141 Elementary General Physics I (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 151 Elements of Physics (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MSYM 109 Physical Principles in Agriculture (4 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">College Distribution Requirements, ACE Requirements + Free Electives 21-29 </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Sociology Emphasis (BS Degree) Total Credit Hours: 46-48</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Sociology Emphasis Area Courses 21</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Require SOCI 205 (3 hrs) plus meet the requirements of the minor in sociology – 18 hours including SOCI 101. No more than 3 hours total from internship and independent study courses, SOCI 397 and/or independent study SOCI 399 may count toward the minor requirements in sociology.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences 20-22 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Biology 7-8 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 103 Organismic Biology (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 220 &amp; BIOS 222 Principles of Ecology &amp; Lab (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 232 Ecological Issues in the Great Plains (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Chemistry 8-9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 105 &amp; CHEM 106 Chemistry in Context I &amp; II (8 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 General Chemistry I &amp; II (8 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 113 &amp; CHEM 114 Fundamental Chemistry I &amp; II &amp; Lab (CHEM 116) (9 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Physics 5 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span><span class="generated-style"> PHYS 141 Elementary Physics I (5 cr) </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 221 General Physics I &amp; Lab (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">College Distribution Requirements, ACE Requirements + Free Electives 19-24</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">C- and D Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Environmental studies majors must earn a “C” or “P” in all environmental studies (ENVR) core courses and discipline-specific emphasis area courses. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">No environmental studies (ENVR) core courses, unless offered Pass/No Pass, or discipline-specific emphasis area courses may be taken Pass/No Pass. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Minimum of 18 hours with 6 hours at 300 level or above are required.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">1. Required Environmental Studies Courses </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Credit Hours 7 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENVR 101 Environmental Studies Orientation 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENVR 201 Science, Systems, Environment &amp; Sustainability 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENVR 249 Individual &amp; Cultural Perspectives on the Environment 3</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">2. Minimum of 11 hours will be selected for the course of study plan.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 220 Principles of Ecology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 232 Ecological Issues in the Great Plains (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">NRES 270 Biological Invaders (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENTO 300 Toxins in the Environment (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">NRES 104 Climate in Crisis (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">METR 200 Weather &amp; Climate (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">NRES 208 Applied Climate Sciences (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">NRES 108 Earth’s Natural Resource Systems Lab (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENSC 110 Energy in Perspective (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">GEOL 106 Environmental Geology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">SOIL 153 Soil Resources (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">WATS 281 Intro to Water Science (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Human Dimensions </span><span class="requirement-sec-1-italic">(Select one course from two of four areas)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Area 1. Ethics </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 225 Environmental Ethics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 388 Ethics in Agriculture &amp; Natural Resources (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Area 2. Law</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 357 Natural Resource &amp; Environmental Law (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 457 Water Law (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 456 Environmental Law (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Area 3. Resource Management</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">NRES 423 Integrated Resources Management (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">CRPL 470 Environmental Planning &amp; Policy (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">NRES 475 Water Quality Strategy (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Area 4. Leadership</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 410 Environmental Leadership (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">COMM 371 Communication in Negotiation &amp; Conflict Resolution (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ALEC 202 Leadership Development in Small Groups &amp; Teams (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Area 5. Cultural Perspectives</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 446 Environmental Sociology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 473 Ecological Anthropology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Area 6. Economics and Policy</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">NRES 323 Natural Resources Policy (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 141 Intro to the Economics of Agriculture (3 cr)</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
