<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Family Science</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="family-science">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name">Family Science</p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEPARTMENT:</span> Child, Youth &amp; Family Sciences</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span> Family Science </p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 </p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Judy Hofeldt, Amber Kargol </p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The career path for Family Science (working with children and families) provides a comprehensive program grounded in family science theory, research, and professional practice and application. The distinct feature of this career path is that it provides students with knowledge and intervention skills that will assist them in helping to prevent and remedy interpersonal problems experienced by individuals in their family relationships, building on the family’s strengths. In addition, this career path will prepare students for graduate school (e.g. family science, family therapy, social work, counseling psychology, and law), or for employment in human services agencies or programs. Students are prepared to work in human service agencies or nonprofit agencies serving individuals and families. Students selecting several courses in the economic and family finance content area are prepared to advise in the areas of consumer credit and financial management. These courses may make them eligible to take the Accredited Financial Counselors examinations.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Degree at a Glance</p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Requirements 30-34</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 1. 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 2. <span class="requirement-ital">Select one: </span>ALEC 102, COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 210, COMM 286 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 3. <span class="requirement-ital">Select one: </span>ECON 215, EDPS 459, MATH 104, MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 108H, MATH 203, MATH 208, STAT 218 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3-5</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 4. <span class="requirement-ital">Select one: </span>ANTH 242 &amp; ANTH 242L; BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L; BIOS 103 &amp; BIOS 103L; CHEM 105, CHEM 109, CHEM 110, CHEM 113; ENTO 115 &amp; ENTO 116; GEOG 155; GEOL 101, GEOL 103; METR 200; NRES 108; PHYS 141, PHYS 142, PHYS 151 &amp; PHYS 153, PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 221, PHYS 212 &amp; PHYS 222, PHYS 260 &amp; PHYS 262, TMFD 206 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3-5</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 5. 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 6. CYAF 160<span class="requirement-ital"> (CYAF Core Requirements)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 7. 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 8. CYAF 150<span class="requirement-ital"> (CYAF Core Requirements)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 9. CYAF 495<span class="requirement-ital"> (CYAF Core Requirements)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 10. CYAF 497D<span class="requirement-ital"> (CYAF Core Requirements)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Supporting Courses 1</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">LIBR 110 1</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF Core Requirements 18-19 </p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CYAF 222, CYAF 280, CYAF 285 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CYAF 382, CYAF 380, CYAF 488 (3 hr ea) 15</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one: </span>CYAF 270 &amp; CYAF 270L, CYAF 271 &amp; CYAF 271L, CYAF 372; GERO 200, GERO 307, GERO 446, GERO 447; EDPS 250, EDPS 251, EDPS 450, EDPS 451; PSYC 289, PSYC 446, PSYC 489 3-4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Option Area <span class="requirement-ital">(Choose either Option A or B)</span> 18-23</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Option A</span> – Human and Community Services (18 hrs)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CYAF 333, CYAF 446 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CYAF 458, CYAF 471 (3 hrs ea) 9</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one:</span> PSYC 380, SLPA 150, SPED 201, SPED 400 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one:</span> CYAF 416, EDAD 421, EDAD 422, EDPS 362 3 </p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one:</span> CYAF 285, CYAF 322, CYAF 382, CYAF 446, CYAF 458, CYAF 493 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Option B</span> – Family Science Research (21-23 hrs)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CYAF 333, CYAF 446 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CYAF 458, CYAF 471, CYAF 498 (3 hrs ea) 12</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one:</span> PSYC 380, SLPA 150, <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> SPED 201 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select either:</span> PSYC 350 &amp; PSYC 450 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> SOCI 205 &amp; SOCI 206 6-8</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Minor Requirements 18</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Approved minors:</span> Anthropology, communication studies, education, gerontology, global studies, leadership and communications, psychology or sociology. </p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Electives 25-35</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 120</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1">ACE Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
				<p class="title-1">CYAF Core Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="basic-text-bold">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for CYAF core courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF 150 Life Skills for Success</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF 160 Human Development &amp; the Family</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF 222 Intro to Family Finance</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF 280 Family Science</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF 285 Dating &amp; Couple Relationships <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CYAF 382 Parenting</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF 380 Working with Families in Communities &amp; Schools</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF 488 Child &amp; Family Policy</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF 495 Special Topics in Family &amp; Cultural Diversity <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ETHN XXX</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF 497D Community Internships in Child, Youth &amp; Family Studies</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Human Development <span class="requirement-ital">(select one)</span>: </p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 270 &amp; CYAF 270L, CYAF 271 &amp; CYAF 271L, CYAF 372; GERO 200, GERO 307, GERO 446, GERO 447; EDPS 250, EDPS 251, EDPS 450, EDPS 451; PSYC 289, PSYC 446, PSYC 489</p>
				<p class="title-3">Supporting Courses</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">LIBR 110</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ALEC 102, COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 210, or COMM 286</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 215, EDPS 459, MATH 104, MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 108H, MATH 203, MATH 208, STAT 218</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Science Course with Lab <span class="requirement-ital">(select from)</span>: </p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 242 &amp; ANTH 242L; BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L, BIOS 103 &amp; BIOS 103L; CHEM 105, CHEM 109, CHEM 110, CHEM 113; ENTO 115 &amp; ENTO 116; GEOG 155; GEOL 101, GEOL 103; METR 200; NRES 108; PHYS 141, PHYS 142, PHYS 151 &amp; PHYS 153, PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 221, PHYS 212 &amp; PHYS 222; PHYS 260 &amp; PHYS 262; TMFD 206</p>
				<p class="title-1">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Students must select either an Option A or Option B career path. Courses taken that fulfill the requirements of other categories may not be counted for these credits.</p>
				<p class="title-3">Option A – Human and Community Services </p>
				<p class="basic-text">This option is for students wanting to work with children and families in human services and youth organizations.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF 333 Families in the Economy</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF 446 Addictions &amp; Families <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CYAF 458 Family Stress &amp; Crisis, Coping &amp; Recovery</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF 471 Human Sexuality &amp; Society</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Atypical Development <span class="requirement-ital">(select one)</span>: PSYC 380, SLPA 150, SPED 201, SPED 400</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Educational Programming/Learning <span class="requirement-ital">(select one)</span>: CYAF 416, EDAD 421, EDAD 422, EDPS 362</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF Elective <span class="requirement-ital">(select one)</span>: CYAF 285, CYAF 322, CYAF 382, CYAF 446, CYAF 458, CYAF 493</p>
				<p class="title-3">Option B – Family Science Research</p>
				<p class="basic-text">This option is for students planning to pursue an advanced degree in family science or marriage and family therapy. Must have a 3.0 GPA for this option.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF 333 Families in the Economy</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF 446 Addictions &amp; Families <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CYAF 458 Family Stress &amp; Crisis, Coping &amp; Recovery</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF 471 Human Sexuality &amp; Society</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Atypical Development <span class="requirement-ital">(select one)</span>: PSYC 380, SLPA 150, SPED 201</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">PSYC 350 Research Methods &amp; Data Analysis &amp; PSYC 450 Advanced Research Methods &amp; Analysis <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> SOCI 205 Intro to Social Research I &amp; SOCI 206 Intro to Social Research II</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF 498 Research UCARE, REU, Non-UCARE Research Experience in Child, Youth &amp; Family Studies</p>
				<p class="title-1">Minor Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text">All family science majors must have a minor or area of concentration (18 hrs). Examples of approved minors: anthropology, communication studies, education, gerontology, global studies, leadership and communications, psychology or sociology.</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
