<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Finance</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="finance">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Finance</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Finance</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 hours for degree (24-30 hours for the major) </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.5 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes–for CBA students only</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Gordon Karels</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> DeFusco, Farrell, Geppert, Karels, Peterson</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Dudney, Unlu</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Friesen, Lockhart, Lin</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Vagts</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The goal of any financial system is to allocate monetary resources to those individuals, companies and governmental units that have the best ideas for usage. The study of finance focuses on the organization and development of capital markets and financial institutions in achieving the optimal usage of funds. As a finance student, you might want to examine how conflict of interest affects managerial performance, how risk influences investment decisions, or how investor psychology can impact the price of stocks and bonds. The finance faculty offer strong support for the exploration of such topics and the curriculum is designed to prepare students in areas of high employment demand. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A solid understanding of the finance role is becoming ever more essential in the management of public, private, and nonprofit organizations. The basic course, FINA 361 (required of all students in the College), presents the institutional background, theory, and decision-making skills essential to an understanding of the corporate finance function. The major theoretical issues and the financial techniques that are used to analyze capital management problems are investigated.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The department also offers a course in personal finance, FINA 260, that exposes students to basic financial concepts such as personal taxes, investment opportunities, insurance issues and retirement planning. The personal finance course is open to all university students and has no prerequisites. Successful completion of FINA 260 satisfies ACE Outcome 6 in the University’s general education requirements. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The finance major offers course work in the following areas of specialization:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Banking and Financial Institutions</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Risk Management and Insurance</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CFA® – Investments</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">General Finance</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Finance students must declare one of these specializations as a formal option within their major. Multiple options cannot be chosen. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The finance department faculty hold student advising sessions every semester to discuss course offerings and curriculum requirements. Students are highly encouraged to attend these sessions and to meet with their CBA advisers on a regular basis. The department chair is also available to answer questions regarding the selection of courses or other questions related to the finance curriculum.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Major/Department Admission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University Admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements. However, the CFA option in the finance major does require a separate application. This can be found on the department’s Web page.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 24-30 hours of course work for the major.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All students, regardless of their major or interests in the College will take FINA 361 as part of the Business Core Intermediate requirements.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">As noted in the College Degree Requirements section, all course work for the major must be taken for a grade.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Exception: FINA 97 for the CFA option which is 0 credit hours, Pass/No Pass.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Course work for the major must be selected from the approved list of courses.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">FINA 399/FINA 499 may NOT be counted toward the major, options, or minor.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Required core finance courses cannot be counted as course work in the options.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ALL majors must take an International Business Course requirement and while this can be part of the major for those pursuing the General Finance Option, all other options will need to work this requirement into their ELECTIVE section of the program.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for students interested in pursuing the bachelor of science degree with a major in finance will complete 12 hours of core finance courses and complete one finance option consisting of 12-18 hours to meet the requirements for Business Core Advanced-Major (BCA-M). </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Required core finance courses (12 hours):</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FINA 338 Principles of Corporate Risk Management</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FINA 363 Investment Principles</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FINA 365 Financial Institutions &amp; Markets (ECON 365) </span><span class="list-ital">Can double count toward ECON minor if pursuing finance major.</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FINA 461 Advanced Finance</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The non-core course work is organized around the following options consisting of another 12-18 hours:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Finance students must declare one of these specializations as a formal option within their major. Multiple options cannot be chosen. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Banking and Financial Institutions</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Risk Management and Insurance</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">CFA® – Investments</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">General Finance</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Banking and Financial Institutions Option</span><span class="generated-style"> is designed for students wishing to prepare for a career in the financial services industry. Course work emphasizes the decisions that financial managers make. The role of both bank and non-bank institutions in economic growth and development are examined. Designated scholarships for study of this option are available and internship opportunities are supported and encouraged.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Banking and Financial Institutions Option (15 hours)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FINA 260 Personal Finance </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> AECN 495A Internship in Agricultural Financing &amp; Banking</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FINA 307 Principles of Individual Risk Management &amp; Insurance </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> FINA 382 Real Estate Principles &amp; Practice</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FINA 375 Financial Statement Analysis </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ACCT 313 &amp; ACCT 314 Intermediate Accounting I &amp; II</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FINA 412 Life &amp; Health Insurance </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> FINA 482 Real Estate Finance </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> FINA 450 International Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FINA 465 Bank Management</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students pursuing the Banking and Financial Institutions Option may count </span><span class="basic-text-bold">one</span><span class="generated-style"> of their 300/400-level requirements for the finance major toward fulfilling 3 hours of the 12 hour 300/400-level elective requirement; or may count </span><span class="basic-text-bold">two</span><span class="generated-style"> if AECN 495A is taken.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The Risk Management and Insurance Option</span><span class="generated-style"> focuses on the study of methods used to manage activities whose outcome cannot be forecast with certainty. Individuals and organizations utilize risk management tools to reduce the uncertainty of achieving specific goals and targets. Risk management has become a central management function applicable to every area of management specialization. </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Risk Management and Insurance Option (15 hours)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FINA 307 Principles of Individual Risk Management &amp; Insurance</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FINA 438 Enterprise Risk Management</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FINA 467 Options, Futures &amp; Derivative Securities</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="list-ital">Choose two additional courses from the following, one of which must be FINA 412 or FINA 413:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FINA 412 Life &amp; Health Insurance</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FINA 413 Social Insurance</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FINA 375 Financial Statement Analysis</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FINA 450 International Financial Management</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FINA 463 Security Analysis &amp; Warren Buffett Business Valuation Techniques</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 437 Computer-Aided Analysis in Decision Making</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Students pursuing the Risk Management and Insurance Option may count </span><span class="basic-text-bold">two</span><span class="generated-style"> of their 300/400-level requirements for the finance major toward fulfilling 6 hours of the 12 hour 300/400-level elective requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The CFA® – Investments Option</span><span class="generated-style"> is a technical program designed to immerse students in the art and science of the management of financial assets. UNL’s finance department is a CFA® Program Partner and the course material covered in this option meets the requirements of the Chartered Financial Analysts Program Partnership. A year-long portfolio management course with students investing real dollar funds is a part of this curriculum. Students completing this option would be expected to sit for the Level I, CFA exam.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">CFA® – Investments Option (18 hours)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 313 Intermediate Accounting I</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 314 Intermediate Accounting I</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FINA 467 Options, Futures &amp; Derivative Securities</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FINA 468 Portfolio Practicum I </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FINA 469 Portfolio Practicum II </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FINA 482 Real Estate Finance </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FINA 97 Ethics Assessment</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students pursuing the CFA® – Investments Option may count </span><span class="basic-text-bold">three</span><span class="generated-style"> of their 300/400-level requirements for the finance major toward fulfilling 9 hours of the 12 hour 300/400-level elective requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students pursuing this option and selecting an accounting minor may double count their ACCT course work for the minor </span><span class="basic-text-bold">and</span><span class="generated-style"> finance major.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who only take FINA 468 may count that towards the General Finance Option.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">The General Finance Option</span><span class="generated-style"> allows a student to pursue a broad range of interests in the finance field. Students can select from courses in Real Estate, International Finance, Insurance, and Investments. A solid understanding of the basic finance function is provided with this option that prepares students for entry-level positions in the management and operation of public, private, and nonprofit financial organizations.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">General Finance Option (12 hours) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="list-ital">Select 3 hours from:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 311 Intermediate Macroeconomics </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ECON 312 Intermediate Microeconomics </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 308 Managerial Accounting </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 313 Intermediate Accounting I</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">FINA 375 Financial Statement Analysis </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">6 hours of 300/400-level finance courses</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">3 hours of 400-level finance courses</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students pursuing the General Finance Option may count </span><span class="basic-text-bold">one</span><span class="generated-style"> of their 300/400-level requirements for the finance major toward fulfilling 3 hours of the 12 hour 300/400-level elective requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students pursuing this option and selecting an </span><span class="basic-text-bold">accounting or economics major/minor</span><span class="generated-style"> may double count their ACCT or ECON course work.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minor Requirements </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Finance majors are encouraged to minor (or double major) in accounting or economics. The finance department does not prohibit the double-counting of hours used to obtain a minor or double major. Many actuarial science majors also choose to double major with finance. Requirements appear under actuarial science. Courses that might be double counted include: ACCT 308, ACCT 313, ACCT 314, FINA 365/ECON 365, ECON 311, ECON 312, and FINA 413/ECON 413.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Electives</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">See College Degree Requirements–Electives for additional options/restrictions regarding elective credit for the degree. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students considering graduate work in business are encouraged to take MATH 106 instead of MATH 104. Additional course work in mathematics is strongly encouraged.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Enrollment in most upper-level finance courses usually requires completion of FINA 361 as well as other prerequisites. Refer to course descriptions for specific course prerequisites.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">C- and D Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as the College grade rules. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">If selecting ACCT 308, ACCT 313, and/or ACCT 314, prerequisites require a grade of C in previous ACCT courses:</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 308 requires a grade of C in ACCT 201 and ACCT 202</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 313 requires a grade of C in ACCT 201 and ACCT 202</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 314 requires a grade of C in ACCT 313</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College Pass/No Pass limits.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College GPA requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Finance Minor</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The finance minor is available to College of Business Administration students only. The college requires that 75% of the course work for the minor will be completed at UNL.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Finance course work used for this minor cannot be double counted toward business core foundation (BCF) intermediate (BCI) or advanced-major (BCA-M; BCA-C) degree requirements, for another major, or any other business minor requirements. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All course work for the minor must be taken for a grade.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">FINA 399/ FINA 499 may NOT be used toward the minor.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">To fulfill the requirements for a finance minor, students must complete 12 hours of the following:</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">FINA 338 Principles of Corporate Risk Management </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> FINA 363 Investment Principles </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">FINA 365 Financial Institutions &amp; Markets</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">3 hours of 300/400-level finance course work </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">3 hours of 400-level finance course work</span></li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
