<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Great Plains Studies</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="great-plains-studies">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Great Plains Studies</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Great Plains Studies</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Charles Braithwaite</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: James Stubbendieck,</span><span class="generated-style"> 1155 Q Street, Room 306</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chief Adviser:</span><span class="generated-style"> Charles Braithwaite, 1155 Q Street, Room 504</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Great Plains Studies is an interdisciplinary/ intercollegiate program of the Center for Great Plains Studies, 1155 Q Street. A major or minor in Great Plains Studies is a useful program for students who plan a career in business, education, planning, policy analysis, agriculture, public relations, marketing, and any profession or career where an in-depth understanding of the Pains region would be advantageous. Courses that comprise the program are based in the following cooperating departments: African American and African Studies; Agricultural Economics; Agronomy; Anthropology and Geography; Architecture; Art and Art History; Biological Sciences; Communication Studies; Community and Regional Planning; Earth and Atmospheric Sciences; English; Ethnic Studies; History; Latino and Latin American Studies; Modern Languages and Literatures; Music; Native American Studies; Natural Resource Sciences; Political Science; Sociology; and Women and Gender Studies. Internships are strongly encouraged and may be used to fulfill major or minor requirements. The Frances W. Kaye Scholarship for $500 is awarded each year to a Great Plains major.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">GPSP 170 Introduction to Great Plains Studies (3 cr), and GPSP 400 Seminar in Great Plains Studies (3 cr), and at least one course in each of the four categories: human heritage, natural environment, social environment, and arts and humanities, for a total of 12 hours. The remaining 12 hours can be taken from other courses listed under these categories, from at-large courses, or as independent study, except that no more than 3 hours of independent study will ordinarily be counted toward the major.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style"> The courses should be chosen in such a way as to construct a thematically or professionally coherent program. Other courses or independent study may be substituted for some of the courses listed with permission of the chief adviser. The chief adviser may also assign an adviser for each student from among the faculty fellows of the Center. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. To develop a portfolio consisting of materials from Great Plains course work, to be submitted to the chief adviser prior to graduation. The portfolio should include a research paper from the Seminar in Great Plains Studies, GPSP 400, as well as papers from at least three other courses that apply to the major.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. In their senior year, to participate in an exit interview. The chief adviser will inform students of the scheduling and format of assessment activities.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Results of participation in this assessment activity will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">A. Core Courses</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">All majors take at least one course from each of the following four categories:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Arts and Humanities</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AHIS 398 Great Plains Art (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 211 Literature of Place (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 347 Humanities on the Plains (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Human Heritage</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 434 Intro to Great Plains Archaeology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 334 Historical Geography of the Great Plains (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 360 History of Nebraska and the Great Plains (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 465 History of Plains Indians (ETHN 465) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Natural Environment</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 232 Ecological Issues in the Great Plains (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NRES 310 Intro to Forest Management (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Social Environment</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 130 Anthropology of the Great Plains (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 352 Indigenous Peoples of the Great Plains (ETHN 352) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">POLS 225 Nebraska Government &amp; Politics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">B. Courses at Large</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Great Plains Courses at Large</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AECN 201 Farm &amp; Ranch Management (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AECN 265 Resource &amp; Environmental Economics I (NREE 265) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AECN 376 Rural Community Economics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AECN 388 Ethics in Agriculture &amp; Natural Resources (ALEC 388) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AECN 445 Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Policy Analysis (NREE 445) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGRO 440 Great Plains Ecosystem (RNGE 440/NRES 440) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGRO 445 Livestock Management on Range &amp; Pasture (ASCI 451/RNGE 445) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">AGRO 475 Water Quality Strategy (CIVE 475/CRPL 475/GEOL 475/MSYM 475/NRES 475/POLS 475/SOCI 475/SOIL 475/WATS 475) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 451 Contemporary Issues of Indigenous Peoples in North America (ETHN 451) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 455 Great Plains Flora (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 459 Limnology (NRES 459/WATS 459) (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Offered at Cedar Point Biological Station)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 470 Prairie Ecology (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Offered at Cedar Point Biological Station)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 475 Ornithology (3 cr) </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Offered at Cedar Point Biological Station)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 482 Field Entomology (ENTO 411) (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Offered at Cedar Point Biological Station)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 487 Field Parasitology (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Offered at Cedar Point Biological Station)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 488 Natural History of the Invertebrates (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Offered at Cedar Point Biological Station)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 489 Ichthyology (NRES 489) (4 cr) </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Offered at Cedar Point Biological Station)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 245B Native American Literature (ETHN 245B) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 405K Canadian Fiction (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 445E Native American Literature (ETHN 445E) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 370 Geography of Nebraska (2-3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 352 American West Since 1900 (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 359 The Mythic West (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MUSC 489 American Music (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NRES 484 Water Resources Seminar (AGRO 484, GEOG 484, GEOL 484) (1 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 446 Environmental Sociology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style"> Course Level Requirement</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">At least 12 hours of course work must be at the 300 and 400 levels.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">No more than 3 hours of independent study will ordinarily be counted toward the major.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Up to 6 hours of suitable internship work can be included in the 30 hours required for the major, and Great Plains Studies students are strongly encouraged to pursue an internship through Career Services: Student Jobs and Internships as part of their program.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">18 hours, at least 6 at 300 level or above, including:</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">GPSP 170 Intro to Great Plains Studies (ANTH 170/GEOG 170/NRES 170/SOCI 170) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">GPSP 400 Seminar in Great Plains Studies (GEOG 400/HIST 400) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Three hours each from three out of four core areas approved for major.</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Three hours to be chosen from among core courses, courses-at-large, internship, or independent study.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
