<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Individualized_Program_of_Studies-11</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="individualized-program-of-studies-11">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Individualized Program of Studies</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Individualized Program of Studies (IPS)</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences Advising Center</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Coordinator: Arts and Sciences Advising Center</span><span class="generated-style">, 107 Oldfather Hall</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Arts and Sciences major or minor in Individualized Program of Studies allows a student to design an academic program to pursue a special interest not covered by the established majors or minors offered by the College. A proposal must be interdisciplinary, (that is, come from more than one department), and center on a clearly defined problem area, a defined body of thought, a specific area of interest, or a specific educational goal. The program is not intended to allow students to graduate without concentrating their thoughts in some clearly defined pattern. Students intending to pursue graduate work should be sure that this particular program will meet admission requirements. Students also should be sure that the University has the resources (faculty interest and expertise) to support the anticipated Individualized Program of Studies major. Each major or minor is essentially “custom-made” to meet specific individual needs. However, the following list of titles of approved programs gives an idea of some of the opportunities: biomedical illustration, adolescent studies, language studies, neuroscience and behavior, and hospital administration.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students with interests or educational objectives that cannot be met by a traditional major or minor, span more than one of the College’s traditional departmental divisions, and whose interests and objectives can be expressed in terms of some defined problem area or topic are encouraged to consider this major or minor option. For more information, interested students should contact the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Procedure. An Individualized Program of Studies proposal must be submitted on a form available in the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall. The student must find a faculty member from the core department in Arts and Sciences to act as the adviser. The student and the academic adviser are responsible for coordinating the program with other concerned departments. The proposal, with a title, description and justification for the topic, must be approved and signed by the adviser, the core department chair, and the College Curriculum Committee. The program must be approved by the College Curriculum Committee before the student completes 90 of the 125 (or 130) applicable hours toward the degree. Forms are available in the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Individualized Program of Studies is a major or minor. Therefore, in addition all other College degree requirements must be fulfilled.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Selection of at least 48 hours of courses from more than one Arts and Sciences department representing an integrated study of some area, topic, or problem.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. A Core Department: At least 15 of the 48 or more hours must be in one department in the College.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. At least half of the 48 hours (24 hours) must be from the College of Arts and Sciences. Courses outside the College of Arts and Sciences may be applied to the 48 hours when they contribute directly and necessarily to the program.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. The Program must be approved by the College Curriculum Committee before the student completes 90 of the 125 (or 130) applicable hours toward the degree.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A maximum of 6 hours of Pass/No Pass (P/N) credit is allowed in courses taken to fulfill the requirements of the major or the minor.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Selection of at least 24 hours of courses from more than one Arts and Sciences department representing an integrated study of some area, topic, or problem.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. A Core Department: At least 9 of the 24 or more hours must be in one department in the College.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. At least half of the 24 hours (12 hours) must be from the College of Arts and Sciences. Courses outside the College of Arts and Sciences may be applied to the 24 hours when they contribute directly and necessarily to the program.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. The Program must be approved by the College Curriculum Committee before the student completes 90 of the 125 (or 130) applicable hours toward the degree.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Pass/No Pass.</span><span class="generated-style"> A maximum of 6 hours of Pass/No Pass (P/N) credit is allowed in courses taken to fulfill the requirements of the major or the minor.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
