<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Industrial &amp; Management Systems Engr</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="industrial-management-systems-engr">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Industrial &amp; Management Systems Engineering</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Industrial &amp; Management Systems Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 131</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Robert Williams</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Jeffrey C. Woldstad</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bishu, Choobineh, Hallbeck, Rajurkar, Riley, Woldstad</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Savory, Williams</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Ko</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturer:</span><span class="generated-style"> Batur</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The department offers a curriculum leading to the degree of bachelor of science in industrial engineering, designed to help prepare the student for a wide range of employment positions or further study. Industrial engineering involves the science and practice of designing and managing complex integrated systems. Industrial engineering education provides students with the background to participate in such activities as manufacturing engineering, ergonomics, production planning and control, economic analysis, statistical analysis, quality control, manpower planning, facilities design, packaging, robotics, computer simulation, work place design and analysis, inventory control and optimization. The BS degree in industrial engineering is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Mission and Objectives</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The goal of the IMSE department is to educate students to be effective problem solvers and leaders. We strive to provide students with the education necessary to succeed in their chosen profession and to excel in post-baccalaureate education. The specific (ABET) objectives of the program are to educate students who a short time after their graduation will:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Meet or exceed the expectations of their employers with respect to problem solving and leadership skills.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Be successful when pursuing post-baccalaureate educational opportunities such as graduate school, professional degrees, and/or professional development. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Major/Department Admission</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">4 units (or years) of college prep English </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">4 units of mathematics – algebra I, algebra II, geometry, pre-calculus, and trigonometry </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">3 units of social studies – 1 unit of American and/or world history and 1 unit of history, American government and/or geography </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">3 units of natural sciences – chemistry and physics, 1 unit must include laboratory </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">2 units of one foreign language</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for the Degree (Lincoln Campus)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">First Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Can be substituted with CHEM 111 or CHEM 113.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 50 Intro to Industrial Engineering 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MECH 130 Intro to CAD 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Electives 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Second Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Electives 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Third Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGM 223 Engineering Statics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 206 Engineering Economy I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 275 Intro to Manufacturing Processes 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fourth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CSCE 155N Computer Science I: Engineering &amp; Science Focus 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 211 Elements of Electrical Engineering I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ELEC 231 Electrical Engineering Lab 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 250 Intro to Industrial Systems 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Fifth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 305 Intro to Engineering Management 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 315 Intro to Ergonomics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 321 Engr Statistics &amp; Data Analysis 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Engineering Science Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Engineering science electives total 6 hours. A student can choose from MECH 200 or MECH 310, ENGM 325 or ENGM 373, or METL 260.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Sixth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 328 Deterministic Operation Research Models 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 334 Production &amp; Operations Management 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 375 Manufacturing Engineering 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Information Systems Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Information systems electives total 3 hours. A student can choose from any CSCE course (except CSCE 101), ELEC 121, MATH 340/840, or MNGT 350, MNGT 452, MNGT 454, MNGT 456, MNGT 457, or MNGT 458.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Engineering Science Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Engineering science electives total 6 hours. A student can choose from MECH 200 or MECH 310, ENGM 325 or ENGM 373, or METL 260.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Communication Elective 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Choose one course from the ACE SLO two elective courses.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Seventh Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 421 Applied Statistics &amp; Quality Control 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 428 Stochastic Operation Research Modeling 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 440 Discrete Event Simulation 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE Elective I (select from following list) 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE Elective II (select from following list) 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style">Eighth Semester Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGR 400 Professional Ethics &amp; Social Responsibilities 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 434 Facility Planning &amp; Design 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 450 Senior Engineering Project 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE Elective I </span><span class="requirement-ital">(select from following list)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">IMSE Elective II </span><span class="requirement-ital">(select from following list)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Technical Elective * 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">* Three (3) credits of technical elective courses are to be selected by the student in conjunction with his/her adviser to formulate a coherent program in industrial engineering. A student can choose from any course in the IMSE Electives I and IMSE Electives II lists or a department-approved technical course at the sophomore level (200 level) or above from sciences, engineering, or mathematics.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Credit Hours Required 130</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">IMSE Electives I</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 405 Analysis of Engineering Management</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 406 Decision &amp; Risk Analysis</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 412 Occupation Safety – A Systems Analysis</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 415 Cognitive Ergonomics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 416 Physical Ergonomics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 417 Occupational Safety Hygiene Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 422 Industrial Quality Control</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 476 Manufacturing Information Systems</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">IMSE Electives II</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 422 Industrial Quality Control</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 460 Packaging Engineering</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 461 RFID Systems in the Supply Chain</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 470 Theory &amp; Practice of Materials Processing</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 471 Tool &amp; Die Design</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 475 Manufacturing Systems I</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 477 Robotics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">IMSE 483 Logistics in the Supply Chain</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Laboratories</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Human Factors/Ergonomics Laboratory.</span><span class="generated-style"> Equipment in this facility includes an environmental chamber, oxygen consumption equipment for measuring physical work capacities, force-sensing resistors for grip studies, hand and pinch dynamometers, bicycle ergometer, and electromyography equipment of assessing localized muscle fatigue. Work focuses on assessing risk factors for cumulative trauma disorders in the hand and wrists and on human-computer interaction studies to evaluate user menus and interface design for manufacturing.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Innovative Design and Ergonomic Analysis (IDEA) Laboratory.</span><span class="generated-style"> The IDEA Lab employs user-centered design principles to design products, such as surgical tools or homeland security devices, that are intuitive to learn, easy to use and maintain by involving the end-users in the design process. The IDEA Lab also evaluates these products or those designed by others, such as a reduced size piano keyboard or computer mice, using subjective, usability and objective ergonomic testing, often employing the end-user. To perform the objective ergonomic testing, the IDEA Lab has custom designed equipment to study the movement of multiple joints such as the wrist and hand or the hand and forearm, touch screens to examine aiming capabilities, devices for force or torque measurement, anthropometry electromyography and electrogoniometry and a mock laparoscopic surgical suite.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Nontraditional Manufacturing Research Laboratory.</span><span class="generated-style"> The laboratory is the only facility of its kind in the United States studying advanced manufacturing processes. Advanced manufacturing equipment is needed to machine materials such as ceramics, super alloys, composites and tool steels used by the aerospace, automotive, electronics, and medical components industries. The advanced machining processes studies include electrodischarge machining, electrochemical machining, laser machining, abrasive waterjet machining, abrasive flow machining and ultrasonic machining. Work focuses on improving these advanced processes, developing computer-controlled systems, improving the surface integrity achieved with these processes, designing machine tools and applying the new processes to production of new complex parts while considering economics, safety, and the environment.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">RFID and Supply Chain Logistics Laboratory.</span><span class="generated-style"> The laboratory is equipped with radio frequency identification (RFID) readers, tags, antennas and software. Warehouse management software, conveyor systems, retrieval systems and RFID training simulator are included.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
