<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>International Business</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="international-business">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">International Business</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> International Business</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 hours for degree (21 hours for the major)</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.5 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes–for CBA students only</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> D’vee Buss</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students in international business study the business practices of other nations and learn how international trade laws affect the world economy. A background in international business will help students become a better member of the management team of any corporation. From banks to manufacturing firms, an increasing number of industries need professionals who understand the world’s business environment. Import and export firms, agricultural commodities firms, and government and non-government agencies may specifically seek international expertise. Students are encouraged to consult with advisers in the Dean’s Office for Undergraduate Programs for the selection of appropriate courses to meet the requirements for the major.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students are encouraged to begin thinking about their plans to study abroad during their freshman year by visiting with the advising office staff, and representatives of International Affairs, 420 University Terrace. It is suggested that students begin language and culture courses their freshman year as well. Upper-level course work and study abroad experience should be done sometime in the junior or senior year. The Advising Office will work with students to outline how their study abroad courses will fulfill program requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Because the nature of the major requires careful selection of course work to count for appropriate requirements, students are strongly encouraged to consult with their adviser or a staff member in the Dean’s Office for Undergraduate Programs. For specific prerequisite requirements and concurrent registration options, refer to the individual course descriptions.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Major/Department Admission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University Admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 21 hours of course work for the major.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Additional hours may be required if starting at the introductory level language courses and/or if taking non-business course work as part of the major.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">As noted in the College Degree Requirements section, all course work for the major (including the language courses and other non-business classes) must be taken for a grade.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style"> Course work for the major must be selected from the approved list of courses.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">No departmental 399/499 may be counted toward the major, options, or minor.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">See OTHER section for additional policies and procedures regarding the international business major.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for students interested in pursuing the bachelor of science degree with a major in international business will complete three components consisting of:</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">(1) Language </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">MINIMUM 6 hours of 300/400-level language course work.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The courses required for the language must be advanced, from </span><span class="basic-text-bold">one</span><span class="generated-style"> language, and include </span><span class="basic-text-bold">one complete sequence (one year)</span><span class="generated-style">, regardless of a student’s point of entrance with previous language instruction.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students must select one of the following to satisfy this requirement.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="basic-text-bold">Option 1:</span><span class="generated-style"> A </span><span class="basic-text-bold">minimum</span><span class="generated-style"> of 6 hours in </span><span class="basic-text-bold">one</span><span class="generated-style"> language, choosing from courses offered at the third year (300 level or above) in the following languages: Chinese, Czech, French, German, Japanese, Russian, or Spanish. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-3"><span class="generated-style">All lectures and readings must be conducted in the chosen foreign language for the courses to qualify.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-3"><span class="generated-style">Independent study and special topic classes may not be used for this purpose, unless pre-arrangements have been made for the acceptance of study abroad credit.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="basic-text-bold">Option 2:</span><span class="generated-style"> For international students pursuing an international business major, </span><span class="basic-text-ital">choose one of the following</span><span class="generated-style">:</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-3"><span class="generated-style">one of the above options (other than their native language and other than a language in which they are fluent) or</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-3"><span class="generated-style">complete 6 hours of English with </span><span class="basic-text-bold">3 hours at the 200 level (or above) and 3 hours at the 300 level (or above)</span><span class="generated-style">.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NBR 4–ACE 5, Humanities</span><span class="generated-style"> (if not already completed during the freshman/sophomore year) can be fulfilled by taking an approved ACE language course (or approved ACE English for international students) and also counting it to fulfill the language requirement for the IBUS major.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">FREN 301, FREN 302, RUSS 301, RUSS 302, RUSS 482, RUSS 483, SPAN 421, SPAN 445 (Approved NBR 4–ACE 5 options)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Double counting is permitted between NBR 4–ACE 5 and the IBUS major or</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">NBR 4–ACE 5 and the language minor, but not for both the major AND minor.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">For international students only: 3 hours of approved ACE 5 300-level English – see approved list of NBR–ACE 5 course work; </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">If one is selected, please see an adviser in CBA 114 for exception processing to have it count both places.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">(2) International Business and Non-Business course work </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">MINIMUM 15 hours of 300/400-level course work from approved list.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">MINIMUM of 9 hours must be selected from the approved international business course work offered by the College of Business Administration.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A MAXIMUM of 6 hours may be selected from the approved list of non-business course work.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">9 hours of international course work (both business and non-business) must be at the 400-level.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Courses must be selected from the approved list of courses:</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Double count options for NBR 6–ACE 9 requirements and major are available for students interested in taking any of the following: AECN 346, AECN 367, AECN 420, AECN 425, ECON 321 or MNGT 428. Course work may count for NBR 6–ACE 9 and major OR NBR 6–ACE 9 and minor in which this course work is accepted, but not for both the major AND minor. If selecting this option, please see an adviser in CBA 114 for exception processing to have this count in both places</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Approved Business Courses</span><span class="generated-style"> (9-15 hours; </span><span class="basic-text-bold">minimum</span><span class="generated-style"> 9 business hours):</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FINA 429/MNGT 429/MRKT 429 Undergraduate Seminar in Japanese Business (3-6 hrs) </span><span class="list-ital">(Credit option for student studying on the Nebraska at Senshu (Japan) University Program only.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BSAD 491 International Studies in Business &amp; Economics (1-15 hrs) </span><span class="list-ital">(Credit option for students studying abroad for course work with no direct business equivalency.)</span><span class="generated-style"> </span><span class="list-ital">(Pre-approval for credit required [except as noted below].) (Credit option for students participating in the Pan Pacific Study Tour.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 321 Intro to International Economics</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="list-ital">If not already completed, ECON 321 may double count for the major AND NBR 6–ACE 9, Global Awareness.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 322 Intro to Development Economics </span><span class="list-ital">(credit cannot be earned in both ECON 322 and AECN 367)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 323 The Economic Development of Latin America</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 388 Comparative Economics Systems</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 421 International Trade </span><span class="list-ital">(credit cannot be earned in both ECON 421 and AECN 420)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 422 International Finance</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 423 Economics of the Less Developed Countries</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 440 Regional Development</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 466 &amp; ECON 467 Pro-Seminar in International Relations I &amp; II </span><span class="list-ital">(Credit option for students participating in the Nebraska at Oxford Program.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ECON 487 Economies in Transition</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FINA 450 International Financial Management</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 398 Global Entrepreneurship </span><span class="list-ital">(Credit option for students participating in the Pan Pacific Study Tour.)</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 428 International Management </span><span class="list-ital">(If not completed at this point MNGT 428 may double count for the major and ACE 9.)</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 459/MIST 459 Global Information Systems</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 453 International Marketing </span><span class="list-ital">(prerequisite requires completion of 6 hours of MRKT course work)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Non-Business Courses (maximum 6 hours permitted)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">AECN 346 World Food Economics </span><span class="list-ital">(If not completed at this point AECN 346 may double count for the major and ACE 9.)</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">AECN 367 Agricultural Development in Developing Countries </span><span class="list-ital">(credit cannot be earned in both ECON 322 and AECN 367)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">AECN 420 International Food &amp; Agricultural Trade </span><span class="list-ital">(credit cannot be earned in both ECON 421 and AECN 420) (If not completed at this point, AECN 420 is an ACE 9 or ACE 10 and may double count for both the major and either ACE 9 or 10.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">AECN 425 Agricultural Marketing in a Multinational Environment </span><span class="list-ital">(If not completed at this point, AECN 425 is an ACE 9 or ACE 10 and may double count for both the major and either ACE 9 or 10.)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 350 Peoples &amp; Cultures of Native Latin America</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 362 Peoples &amp; Cultures of Africa</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 366 Peoples &amp; Cultures of East Asia</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 375 Geography of Asia</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 378 Geography of Latin America</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">HIST 330 Contemporary Europe</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">POLS 360 Understanding World Politics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">POLS 361 The United Nations &amp; World Politics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">POLS 362 Globalization, Human Rights &amp; Diversity</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">POLS 371 Politics of the European Union</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">POLS 376 Chinese Politics</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">POLS 459/ POLS 859 International Political Economy</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">POLS 464/ POLS 864 Political Economy of the Asia Pacific</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">POLS 469 International Law</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">POLS 474/ POLS 874 Comparative Institutions</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">(3) Study Abroad </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">In addition to completing course work required for the major, students majoring in International Business are also required to participate in a UNL sponsored study abroad experience. </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">This must be completed while in college.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">A MINIMUM of 3 hours of UNL sponsored or approved study abroad credit must be achieved as part of the study abroad experience.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">International students must study in a country other than the U.S. and their home country.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minor Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">While not required, students should consider a minor in the language (if available) and/or consider options in other departments related to the country of interest (i.e., history, political science, international affairs, Asian studies, ethnic or European studies, Latin American Studies, etc.)</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Refer to Arts &amp; Science minors for options and requirements which may compliment the major and/or language of interest.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">If applicable (and acceptable courses for the minor are listed) course work that has not already been used for double counting for NBR 4–ACE 5, Humanities or NBR 6–ACE 9 AND the major, IBUS majors have the option to count approved ACE language course work for the international business major and the minor (not an option with any other CBA majors). </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Double count options for NBR 4–ACE 5 requirements and major (OR NBR/ACE and minor)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-3"><span class="generated-style">FREN 301, FREN 302, RUSS 301, RUSS 302, RUSS 482, RUSS 483, SPAN 421, SPAN 445</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Double count options for NBR 6–ACE 9 requirements and major (OR NBR/ACE and minor)</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-3"><span class="generated-style">AECN 346, AECN 367, AECN 420, AECN 425, ECON 321 or MNGT 428, NBR 6–ACE 9</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">In other words, a student can double count the language for:</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">NBR 4–ACE 5 and the major OR </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">NBR 4–ACE 5 and the minor OR </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">If not taking for NBR, then for the major AND minor.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">In any of these instances, credit hours count only ONCE; student still needs 120 hours for the degree </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Be sure to distinguish differences between Plan A &amp; B minors (as Plan A requires completion of only ONE minor, while Plan B requires completion of an additional minor).</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Electives</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">See College Degree Requirements–Electives for additional options/restrictions regarding elective credit for the degree. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Enrollment in most upper-level business courses usually requires completion of an introductory course in that major area as well as other prerequisites. Refer to course descriptions EARLY in the program to plan for completion of specific course prerequisites.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">C- and D Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College grade rules.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style"> Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College Pass/No Pass limits.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College GPA requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Level Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Enrollment in 300/400-level language courses requires completion of introductory course work or appropriate placement on the Modern Language Placement exam.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">International Business Minor</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The international business minor is available to College of Business Administration students only. The college expects that 50% of the course work for the minor will be completed at UNL.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Course work used for this minor cannot be double counted toward business core foundation (BCF) intermediate (BCI) or advanced-major (BCA-M, BCA-A) degree requirements, for another major, nor any other business minor requirements.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 321 and MNGT 428 can count for minor AND NBR 6–ACE 9 “IF” not being used for another major.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All course work for the minor must be taken for a grade.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Departmental 399/499’s may NOT be used toward the minor.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">To fulfill the requirements for an international business minor, students must complete 12 hours from those courses listed under the Approved Business Courses.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">A </span><span class="basic-text-bold">maximum</span><span class="generated-style"> of 6 hours may be taken from one department.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Other policies and procedures regarding the international business major.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The 6 hours of 300/400-level language course work required for the major may </span><span class="basic-text-bold">not</span><span class="generated-style"> be double counted toward the 12 hours of 300/400-level course work; however any ‘additional’ 300/400-level language course work taken, if pursuing a minor </span><span class="basic-text-bold">may</span><span class="generated-style"> count toward the 12 hours of 300/400-level course work.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Do NOT confuse this ruling with permission to double count major/minor course work; this applies only to the 12 hours of 300/400-level elective course work requirement.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students must complete 60 hours of business course work throughout their program. International business majors are permitted to count the 6 hours of language required for the major as part of their 60 hour requirement of business course work. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">MOST majors are required to take one additional business course throughout their entire program to fulfill their business elective requirement. International business majors selecting non-business course work as part of their major (maximum of 6 hours) will need to take additional business electives (3-6 hours depending on how many hours they selected) to fulfill the 60 hour business course work requirement.</span></li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
