<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Interdisciplinary Studies</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="interdisciplinary-studies">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Interdisciplinary Studies</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Fine &amp; Performing Arts</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Interdisciplinary Studies</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Intended for students seeking advanced levels of scholarship, this specialized course of study leads to a bachelor of arts degree. It allows a student, with the supervision and approval of an academic adviser, to design an academic program that differs from the established majors offered by the College. The degree program must be based on a clearly defined problem area, a defined body of thought, or a specific educational goal. Courses outside the College may be used, however, all College requirements (including the ACE requirements) must be fulfilled. (See graduation and degree requirements below.)</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Degree at a Glance</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">ACE Requirements 30</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Languages: Classical &amp; Modern 0-6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from the list of “Approved Courses” found under “College Degree Requirements.”</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Library 110 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Major Area of Study 51</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Electives 32-38</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Hours Required for Graduation 120</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Major/Department Admission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must be admitted as a major into one of the academic units and successfully complete one year of the home unit’s core curriculum before applying for entrance into the Interdisciplinary Studies program. A listing of the required courses is available in each academic unit’s administrative office.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Student must submit a memorandum of courses that includes a minimum of 54 credits in the proposed major. These courses should be anchored in one area of study, with at least 24 credits of the 54 coming from one department. The remaining 30 credits can come from an assortment of subjects to reach the intended goals of the student. A limit of 12 credits of independent study courses may be applied toward the major. Additionally, at least 30 credits of the proposal must be at the 300/400-level</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minor Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A minor is allowed, but not required. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students are required to complete a minimum of 45 credit hours of their proposed course work at UNL after being admitted to the program.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maximum 6 hrs of Pass/No Pass courses</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Level Requirement </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Minimum 30 hrs at the 300/400 level</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Maximum 12 hrs of independent study courses</span></li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
