<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Jewish Studies Minor</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="jewish-studies-minor">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name">Jewish Studies Minor</p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Jewish Studies (Minor only)</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 18</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Naomi Leite</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Jean Cahan,</span> 324 Seaton Hall</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Director and Chief Adviser: </span>Naomi Leite, 324 Seaton Hall </p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Faculty: </span>Burnett (classics and religious studies), Cahan (philosophy and political science), Crawford (classics and religious studies), Der Matossian (history), Gross (Judaic studies), Kohen (political science), Leite (anthropology), Steinacher (history), Turner (classics and religious studies)</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Jewish Studies is an interdisciplinary program housed in the Norman and Bernice Harris Center for Judaic Studies, 324 Seaton Hall. The minor in Jewish Studies is for students of diverse disciplinary backgrounds who are interested in Jewish cultures and peoples, past and present; the ways in which Judaism and other religious traditions have influenced each other, Near Eastern and Middle Eastern history and politics; and/or the origins and effects of anti-Semitism and other forms of discrimination. Courses in Jewish Studies are offered by cooperating faculty in departments in the College of Arts and Sciences including: anthropology, classics, English, history, modern languages and literatures, philosophy, political science, psychology, religious studies, and sociology. Language courses in Biblical Hebrew are available. Students minoring in Jewish Studies are eligible for several scholarships awarded by the Harris Center for Judaic Studies.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Advising.</span> Students are encouraged to meet with the Jewish Studies program adviser as early as possible to discuss their intention to pursue the minor. Courses with significant Jewish Studies content that are not listed below may be eligible for approval as electives.</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">18 hours taken from:</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="list-indent">a. 2 core courses: HIST 219 Intro to Jewish History and JUDS 350 Literature of Judaism</p>
				<p class="list-indent">b. 12 hrs of electives in any combination chosen from List 1 and List 2</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph">Credits earned using the Pass/No Pass option do not count toward this minor.</p>
				<p class="title-2">Elective Courses</p>
				<p class="title-3">List 1 – Jewish Studies</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JUDS 205 Intro to the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JUDS 217 Israel: The Holy Land</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JUDS 308 Dead Sea Scrolls</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JUDS 331 Ancient Israel</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JUDS 332 Jews in the Middle Ages</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JUDS 333 Jews in the Modern World</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JUDS 340 Women in the Biblical World</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JUDS 398 Special Topics in Judaic Studies</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JUDS 406 Second Temple Judaism</p>
				<p class="title-3">List 2 – Other Departments</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CLAS 409. Religion of Late Western Antiquity</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGL 245J Jewish American Fiction</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGL 341 The Bible as Literature</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HEBR 101 Elementary Biblical Hebrew I</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HEBR 102 Elementary Biblical Hebrew II</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HEBR 301 Biblical Hebrew Prose</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HEBR 302 Biblical Hebrew Poetry</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HIST 209 Ancient Greece</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HIST 339 The Holocaust</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MODL 232 Jewish Idea in Modern Literature</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHIL 116 Philosophy &amp; Religious Belief</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHIL 223 Intro to the Philosophy of History</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHIL 265 Philosophy of Religion</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHIL 332 Spinoza</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">POLS 477 Israel &amp; the Middle East</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">SOCI 217 Nationality &amp; Race Relations</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">SOCI 452 Sociology of Religion</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
