<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Language Arts (7-12)</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="language-arts-7-12-">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Language Arts (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Education &amp; Human Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEPARTMENT:</span><span class="generated-style"> Teaching, Learning &amp; Teacher Education</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span><span class="generated-style"> Language Arts (Grades 7-12)</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 125 </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span><span class="generated-style"> 2.5 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Beverly Jensen</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who complete this endorsement are endorsed to teach language arts in grades 7-12.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">General Information </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College offers undergraduate programs leading to a bachelor of science in education and human sciences degree in more than 40 different teaching endorsements.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Some students in other UNL colleges choose to seek certification, completing a degree in their home college while meeting all requirements for teacher certification in the College of Education and Human Sciences.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Early field placement in public and private schools is a nationally recognized hallmark of the teacher education program in the College of Education and Human Sciences.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">While internships are a valuable enhancement to many students’ education, in the College of Education and Human Sciences, practicum experiences and student teaching are a critical and essential part of the curriculum, which must be successfully completed in order to be certified in the teaching profession. A student’s inability to complete these field experiences, for any reason, may adversely impact the student’s ability to gain admission into the College or maintain enrollment in a teacher preparation program. Students unlikely or unable to complete the field experience may be counseled to seek other opportunities where success is more attainable. (See “Felony and Misdemeanor Conviction” and “Professional and Ethical Behavior” for additional information with respect to behaviors impacting field experience participation.)</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Degree at a Glance</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE 6-30</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Professional Education Courses 13</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Language Arts 7-12 Endorsement 72</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional Education Courses 28</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Electives 7</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">TOTAL HOURS 125</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Additional ACE Course Work for Secondary Education</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Secondary Education students need four additional ACE courses for a total of 14 ACE courses. One of the ACE courses must be an approved speech course selected from: COMM 109, COMM 205, COMM 209, or COMM 210. At least two of the 14 ACE courses must be at the 300/400 level.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">It is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All education programs have a competitive admission process. At some point-in-time, after meeting specific education requirements, all students must formally apply to their particular education program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission to a Teacher Education Program (TEP)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the College of Education and Human Sciences does not guarantee admission to a teacher education program. Admission to the advanced phases of teacher education is selective and, in some endorsements, highly competitive. Students must satisfy the following requirements in order to be eligible to apply to the Teacher Education Program:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. A minimum 2.5 cumulative GPA.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Must have earned a minimum of 42 credit hours of college credit.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Completion and submission of the Teacher Education Program Approval Form.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Completion of TEAC 331 (may be taken prior to or during the TEP application process) or approved transfer course, and EDPS 251 with a 2.5 cumulative average in the two classes, and no grade lower than C; TEAC 259 (may be taken prior to or during the TEP application process).</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Documentation of proficiency in reading, writing, and mathematics (PPST) through successful completion of a basic skills examination that meets the Nebraska Department of Education competency requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">6. Completion of one course in communication studies selected from COMM 109, COMM 205, COMM 209, COMM 210, or COMM 286, or approved substitute.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">7. Faculty recommendations.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">8. Completion of a personal and professional fitness self-disclosure form as well as the completion of a formal criminal history review.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">9. Specific programs may have particular learning outcomes that students must address as part of the application process.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Other Admission Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Admission to Student Teaching</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All students who are candidates for an appropriately endorsed Nebraska Teacher’s Certificate are required to student teach. Students who plan to student teach in the fall semester must complete the student teaching application form and submit it by the preceding March 1 to the Director of Field Experiences in 116 Henzlik Hall; students planning to student teach in the spring semester must apply by the preceding October 1. The basic program for student teaching provides for a full-day experience on a semester basis. Students enrolled in an elementary education dual major will complete requirements for student teaching in both majors. Admission to student teaching requires the following:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Matriculation in a teacher education program in the College of Education and Human Sciences, the Graduate College, or dual matriculation in the College of Education and Human Sciences and another college.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Admission to a teacher education program.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Senior standing (89 hours or more) with a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Minimum grade point average of 2.5 in each endorsement area with no grade below C.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. No more than 6 hours of general education or elective classes remain to be completed after the student teaching experience.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">6. A minimum grade point average of 2.5 in pre-professional and professional education courses and no grade below C in pre-professional education courses and no grade below a C+ in professional education courses.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">7. Completion of a criminal history check that will be conducted by an independent party (fee required).</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Student Teaching Registration Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Undergraduate students are required to take 12 credit hours of student teaching or student teaching related course work during a semester-long student teaching experience. Those individuals who are completing two field endorsements will student teach for 20 weeks and will register for a total of 14 credit hours. Graduate students completing a semester-long student teaching experience will register for 6 graduate hours for either a 16 or 20 week experience.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All pre-professional education, professional education, and subject area endorsement course work must be completed prior to student teaching. Student teachers will be required to complete a professional seminar during the student teaching semester that will satisfy the ACE 10 requirement. This seminar may be a separate course (i.e. TEAC 403A for elementary grade level student teachers or TEAC 403B for secondary student teachers) or it may be integrated into the student teaching experience. No additional course work can be taken during the student teaching semester unless approved by the certification officer for the college, the director of field experiences for the college, or the department chair that oversees the program. Students will not be allowed to student teach with anything more than 6 credit hours of general education (ACE) requirements remaining for their degree or in their program.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Endorsement Requirements (72 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Reading Courses 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 411 Reading Processes &amp; Practices 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 441 Content Area Reading, Grades 4-12 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Writing Courses 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 357 Composition Theory &amp; Practice 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 6 hrs from other writing courses (in addition to general education requirements)</span><span class="generated-style"> 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">UNL English courses with a middle digit of 5 are considered writing courses (i.e. ENGL 252, ENGL 253, ENGL 254, ENGL 352, ENGL 353, ENGL 354)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Language Courses 6</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 438 Linguistics for the Classroom School Teacher 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 3 hrs from the following:</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 220 Intro to Linguistic Principles</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 322A Modern English Grammar</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 322B Linguistics and Society</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 420 Intro to Linguistics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 427B,D,E Applications of Linguistics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Literature Courses 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 439 Literature for Adolescents 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 377 Reading Theory &amp; Practice 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">British Literature </span><span class="requirement-ital">(one course must be pre-1800)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from British Literature courses:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 230 English Authors to 1800*</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 230A Shakespeare*</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 231 English Authors after 1800</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 305A The Novel, 1700-1900</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 330E Chaucer, Shakespeare, Milton*</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 362 Intro to Medieval Literature*</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 363 Intro to Renaissance Literature*</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 364 Intro to Restoration &amp; 18th Century Literature*</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 365 Intro to 19th Century British Literature</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 405A 19th Century British Novel*</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 405B 18th Century British Fiction</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 430A Shakespeare I*</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 462 Survey of Medieval Literature*</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 464 British Literature, 1660-1800*</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 465 19th Century British Literature</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">American Literature 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from American Literature courses:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 211 Literature of Place</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 260 American Literature before 1865</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 261 American Literature since 1865</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 332A Mark Twain</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 334 American Literary Traditions</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 402 Poetry</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 403 American Short Story</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 405M American Novel I</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 405N American Novel II</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 432 American Authors to 1900</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 433 American Authors Since 1900</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Literature with Nontraditional Cultural Perspectives 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from Non-traditional Cultural Perspective literature courses:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 212 Lesbian &amp; Gay Literature</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 215 Intro to Women’s Literature</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 244 African-American Literature</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 244A Intro to African Literature</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 244B Black Women Authors</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 244E Early African-American Literature</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 245B Native American Literature</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 245D Chicana &amp;/or Chicano Literature</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 245N Native American Women Writers</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 315A Survey of Women’s Literature</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 315B Women in Popular Culture</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 401K Gay &amp; Lesbian Drama</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 414 Women’s Literature</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 414B Modern &amp; Contemporary Women Writers</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 445 Ethnic Literature</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 445E Native American Literature</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ENGL 445K African &amp;/or African-American Literature</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Speech 12</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">COMM 200 Communication, Collaboration, &amp; Community: Intro 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">COMM 201 Intro to Research Methods Communication Studies 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">COMM 212 Debate 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">COMM 412 Directing Forensics 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Dramatic Arts 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">THEA 114 Basic Acting Techniques I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">THEA 201 Technical Theatre Practice 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">THEA 202 Play Direction I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Journalism and Mass Media 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JOUR 101 Principles of Mass Media 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from the following:</span><span class="generated-style"> 2</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">JOUR 162 Visual &amp; Aural Literacy: Photography</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">JOUR 163 Visual &amp; Aural Literacy: Videography</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">JOUR 164 Visual &amp; Aural Literacy: Graphic Design</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">JOUR 165 Visual &amp; Aural Literacy: Multimedia</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JOUR 201 Editing I 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JOUR 202 Reporting I 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">JOUR 467 School Publications 3</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Education Status</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All newly admitted students who are pursuing a teacher preparation program, except those in non-teaching majors, are classified as pre-education until admitted to a Teacher Education Program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Professional Education Requirements (13 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must complete the following courses before applying to the Secondary Teacher Education Program:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">EDPS 251 (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">EDPS 297 (1 hr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 259 (3 hrs) </span><span class="list-ital">(may be taken prior to or during the TEP application process)</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 331 (3 hrs) or an approved transfer course </span><span class="list-ital">(may be taken prior to or during the TEP application process)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Approved speech class (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Students must complete the following course sometime prior to student teaching:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 330 (3 hrs) </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Program Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Secondary education endorsements (or majors) are divided into fields or single subjects. Students graduating from the College of Education and Human Sciences or working toward certification must complete one field endorsement or two subject endorsements and must take a methods course and student teach in each endorsement. A few supplemental endorsements are available that may enhance employment possibilities. Students may contact the College Student Services Center, 105 Henzlik Hall, for additional information or an explanation of the requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional Education Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students must be accepted into the Secondary Teacher Education Program before enrolling in the Professional Education courses. Upon acceptance, course numbers and call numbers can be obtained from the appropriate subject matter adviser in the College Student Services Center.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional Education (28 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 397, TEAC 451, TEAC 452 (3 hrs each); EDPS 457 (3 hrs); SPED 401B (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Student Teaching: TEAC 403B (3 hrs), TEAC 497 (10 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Grade Requirements in Education Programs</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for completion of an undergraduate degree in a teacher preparation program include a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.5. Students seeking certification must also have a 2.5 GPA in their education courses with no grade lower than a C in their pre-professional courses and no grade lower than a C+ in their professional education courses. Students are also required to have a 2.5 GPA in their subject endorsement area(s) or in field endorsement with no grade lower than C. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> English education and Language Arts education students are required to have a 3.0 GPA in their subject area. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Up to 9 hours of transfer credit with grades below C may be applied to the General Education requirements and elective classes in programs leading to the undergraduate degree in teacher preparation. Transfer grades of C- and D may not be used in the major/endorsement area courses or in the professional courses in teacher preparation programs.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Grade Option–Education</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student enrolled at the University may, in certain instances, take a grading option of Pass/No Pass (P/N) for a specific course. A grade of pass represents satisfactory completion of a course with a grade of C or better. Credits earned under the pass grade option count toward graduation, but no grade points are tabulated in the cumulative grade point average. Likewise, a grade of no pass is not tabulated in the grade point average. The following rules apply to students who are enrolled in teacher preparation programs who choose the Pass/No Pass option:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Only one course in each subject endorsement; two courses in a field endorsement.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. For students in certification programs, pre-professional and professional education classes may not be taken Pass/No Pass unless a class already has a Pass/No Pass designation</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Any course in the general education requirements unless otherwise stipulated by the department of the course.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Total P/N credits may not exceed 12 credit hours. This limit does not include courses offered on a Pass/No Pass only basis.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Beyond Classroom Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In all fields of study, students are expected to attain certain grades and other academic accomplishments in the classroom. In addition to this, students preparing themselves to be teachers, counselors and for other careers in education, are also reviewed to evaluate their ability to successfully and safely interact with children, parents, potential educational employers, and the community-at-large, whose interest in the education of its children often exceeds its concern for other community and governmental services.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Teaching Placement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Office of Field Experiences is responsible for the placement of student teachers. Several factors are considered in determining the district and school to which an individual is assigned. The availability of a cooperating teacher and supervisor who meet the requirements established by the Nebraska Department of Education and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln are among those factors. Opportunities to student teach out-of-state are limited and those placements are becoming increasingly difficult. All requests to student teach outside of the immediate Lincoln area must be individually reviewed and approved by the Director of Field Experiences.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Removal from Student Teaching</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students participating in practicum or student teaching assignments may be removed from their assigned schools if their conduct suggests a lack of professional commitment and presents a negative influence on the well-being or learning of the students in the schools. Specific guidelines that all student teachers are to follow can be found in The Student Teaching Experience: A Handbook for the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. If such a problem occurs, the student in question will be removed by the Director of Field Experiences at the request of the cooperating teacher, building principal, and the College supervisor.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In such cases, a written report stating the problem and efforts to correct the situation will be forwarded to the Director of Field Experiences in the College Student Services Center.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Any student removed from a practicum or student teaching assignment may appeal that decision by submitting a written request to the College Appeals Committee within 30 days of the removal. The Appeals Committee will schedule a meeting, request pertinent information from the Director of Field Experiences, and notify the student several days in advance of the scheduled appeal meeting. Students are advised of their right to seek legal advice and may personally attend the Appeals Committee meeting.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Committee’s decision will be forwarded in writing to the student, to the Director of Field Experiences, and to the Dean of the College.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Application for a Nebraska Teaching Certificate</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To actively engage in the teaching profession, a candidate must fulfill both the College degree requirements and the professional certification requirements of the State of Nebraska. Undergraduate students apply for the teaching certificate online at www.nde.state.ne.us/tcert and apply for the baccalaureate degree in 109 Canfield Administration Building. Post-baccalaureate students completing teacher certification also apply online.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To be eligible for a recommendation for certification, a candidate must meet the following requirements:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Earn one or more degrees from the College of Education and Human Sciences or another accredited institution approved by the College of Education and Human Sciences with a minimum 2.5 grade point average.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Complete the teacher education general education requirements listed for elementary, middle grades or secondary education.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Complete professional education requirements according to established standards.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Complete endorsement(s) according to established standards.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Successfully complete a required period of student teaching.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">6. Complete application for the degree and certificate.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Graduation Without Certification </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In </span><span class="basic-text-bold">rare</span><span class="generated-style"> cases, permission may be granted for a student to graduate without a recommendation for certification. This provision is for the student who does not qualify for or is removed from student teaching. However, there are times when because of illness or other extreme situations, a student will decide not to complete all professional requirements. In this situation, the student should contact his or her adviser, then complete a formal request to the College’s Certification Officer to be allowed to graduate without completing all certification requirements. If permission is granted, the student is expected to complete all professional requirements except student teaching. This includes a passing grade in all methods courses. If a student fails to complete at least one half of the student teaching assignment, the individual will be required to complete a culminating project not to exceed 6 credit hours.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Any student who graduates without a recommendation for certification will not be recommended for teacher certification in any state.</span><span class="generated-style"> In addition, the student will not be eligible for graduation with honors. If, at some future time, the student wishes to complete certification requirements, (s)he must first appeal for readmission to a teacher education program. At least one semester must pass after graduation before the appeal can be made. If the appeal is granted, the student will be treated as a readmitted student and will complete all requirements in effect at the time of reentry, including passing grades in all methods courses.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Education Employment Services</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Career Services Center, 230 Nebraska Union, offers a professional placement service to students and alumni who are seeking employment in education and related fields. In addition to providing on-campus interviews with select schools throughout the year, this office sponsors an annual Education Recruitment Day in the spring, which offers students an opportunity to interview with hiring officials from many schools.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Felony and Misdemeanor Convictions</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Today’s reality demands that the College, along with the public and private schools that facilitate field experience, are all keenly attuned to the safety of the educational community, and particularly children in the classroom, who interact with those placed as student teachers and in other practicum experiences. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Nebraska Department of Education policy requires that a person with any felony conviction or a misdemeanor conviction involving abuse, neglect, or sexual misconduct shall not be allowed to participate in pre-student teaching laboratory and classroom experiences or student teach without approval of the State Board of Education. To comply with this policy, the College of Education and Human Sciences will require each student to affirm under oath that he/she does not have any convictions in the above-named areas prior to each field experience.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To ensure that each individual complies with this policy, all students who are pursuing a teaching certificate will be required to periodically complete a “Personal and Professional Fitness” form (PPF) as well as submit to two formal reviews of their criminal history, which is conducted by an independent third party. The first review will be completed during the first semester of the individual’s freshman year or upon the individual’s transfer into the College of Education and Human Sciences. At that time, each student will complete the PPF form and will also be expected to submit a request for the review of their criminal history. The PPF form will again be completed and submitted as a part of the application process for the Teacher Education Program. The final review, including the submission of the PPF form and the completion of a second criminal history check, will take place as part of the application process to student teach. Each student is responsible for the cost of the two criminal history reviews. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">If a student does have any felony or any misdemeanor convictions, he/she is required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Field Experience as soon as possible, in order to receive counseling with respect to the impact of the conviction on the student’s future in the College, the State Board of Education approval and, more broadly, on the student’s ability to find success in the profession of education. The College of Education and Human Sciences aims to train and graduate teachers of the highest caliber possible, and therefore, the standards the College sets for its students may be more stringent than the rules the Department of Education sets for field experience. A student should not assume that merely because the State Board of Education would approve placement in the field, that the College is willing to make such a placement, or that a participating partner school is willing to accept the student’s placement into it midst.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The consequences of one conviction compared to another may vary significantly, depending upon the facts underlying the convictions, as those facts are determined by the College. In some instances, the behavior associated with the conviction may be so egregious as to render placement in a field experience virtually impossible. In such instances, termination or long-term suspension from a teaching program may be appropriate. In other instances, a responsible passage of time without further criminal incident may indicate that the student has matured and is ready to reconvene his or her education. Consequences will very likely be different from case to case, as each of these difficult matters is unique. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that the safety of children in the classroom, the best interest of the student, and the reputation of the College, are all recognized and promoted. Failure to honestly disclose a conviction may be cause for disciplinary action separate from the conviction itself. Students willing to honestly address the challenges that arise from the past mistakes are more likely to reach a favorable outcome, than those who further jeopardize their integrity with a lie. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional and Ethical Behavior; Avoiding Risky Behaviors</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In additional to criminal convictions, other non-criminal behaviors which: involve risks that are unacceptable for future teachers and the children charged to their care; demonstrate a lack of professionalism and good judgment; and evidence a disregard for one’s personal reputation, the integrity of the College and the teaching profession, may bring into question a student’s ability to be successful in an education career. Before engaging in such questionable behavior, students must consider how the College, the profession, educational employer, parents of school-aged children, and the community which is the State of Nebraska, would perceive or evaluate the impact of that behavior with respect to the students’ ability to serve children. To be allowed to teach is a great honor and a great responsibility. Teaching is a profession that requires its potential candidates to be individuals of the highest integrity. Prospective teachers must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and for their students. They serve as important role models and mentors for children during very impressionable years. Teachers are responsible for the education, safety and well-being for anyone in their charge. Indeed, teachers hold the future of all in their care. Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences is most interested in training future teachers who show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act responsibly. These individuals must be able to serve as representatives of our College and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Should the College, through the reasonable exercise of the judgment of its Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience, determine that a student’s individual behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons and others in the educational community, the College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to deny entry to or dismiss such a student from any program which leads to certification. More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum, pre-practicum, student teaching or similar field experience, since the interests and safety of the children, and young people present in the classroom, schools and other venues where these practicum experiences take place are paramount.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Problematic behaviors, which the College of Education and Human Sciences reasonably determines renders the candidate a risk to the educational community or demonstrates a likelihood of illegal activity, may be established by any credible means, including the facts surrounding a record of arrests and/or convictions.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Similarly, behaviors which result in a finding by a court or other governmental body that the individual is:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a mentally ill and dangerous person;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">mentally incompetent to stand trial;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">acquitted of criminal charges because of insanity;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an incapacitated person;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a person in need of a guardian or conservator, or;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a person unable to manage his or her property due to mental illness, mental deficiency, or chronic use of drugs or chronic intoxication are the kind of behaviors which are likely to disqualify a candidate from participation in practicum experiences and other College of Education and Human Sciences programs.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Similar to the discussion concerning criminal convictions above, the consequences for unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will very likely be different in each case, due to the unique circumstances involved in each matter. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that safety in the classroom, the reputation of the College, and the best interest of the student, are all recognized and promoted.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Appeal to the Dean</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience with respect to a criminal behavior matter, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing within no greater than ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student’s written appeal shall clearly explain to the Dean the basis for the student’s appeal. The Dean will review the student’s basis for appeal, and is authorized, but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student’s written appeal. The Dean is authorized to collect such additional information as she or he deems necessary to review an investigation (including but not limited to the student’s educational records maintained by the College, other documentation, personal interviews and meetings with the student, College faculty, administration and staff, and others with relevant information). The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possibly, but in no case longer than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience or both, a written decision, which decision shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review within the University of Nebraska.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
