<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Management</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="management">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Management</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Management</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 hours for degree (21 hours for the major) </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.5 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes–for CBA students only</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Gwendolyn M. Combs</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Gwendolyn M. Combs</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Luthans, Nah, Olson, Savory, Schniederjans, Uhl-Bien, Welbourne</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Combs, Sebora, Swenseth, Trimi</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Chakrabarty, Harms, Pieper, Titus, Tuggle </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Jones</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Li, Nelson</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A major in management at the University of Nebraska equips students with the essential skills to effectively manage people and resources in today’s business systems and organizational structures. Our management curriculum prepares students for careers in leadership and supervision of employees in the workplace, starting up and managing a business, and utilizing the critical role of information in strategy and operations of the business world.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Major/Department Admission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University Admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All students, regardless of their major or interests in the College will take the following courses as part of the Business Core Intermediate Requirements:</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 331 Operations &amp; Supply Chain Management </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 350 Intro to Management Information Systems </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 360 Managing Behavior in Organizations</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">and for the Business Core Advanced Capstone requirement:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 475 Business Policies &amp; Strategies </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">NONE of these courses may be used to count toward the major.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">As noted in the College Degree Requirements section, all course work for the major must be taken for a grade.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 398, MNGT 399 may not count toward the major or minor in management.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 21 hours of course work for the management major. Students interested in pursuing the bachelor of science degree with a major in management will complete 9 hours of core management courses and one management Option consisting of four courses (12 credit hours) to meet the requirements for the Business Core Advanced-Major (BCA-M). </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Required Management Courses (9 hours):</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 311 Leadership, Communications, &amp; Teams</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 321/ENTR 321 Entrepreneurship &amp; Innovation in Organizations</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 361 Human Resource Management</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The management major offers course work in the following Options of specialization:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Human Resource Management</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Entrepreneurship and Innovation</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Leadership in Organizations</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">General Management</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">Management majors must declare one of these specializations as a formal Option within their major. Multiple options may not be chosen.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">OPTION: Human Resource Management</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">Required Courses:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 461 Strategic Human Resource Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 463 Compensation Administration</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 464 Talent Acquisition &amp; Staffing</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 466 The Regulatory Environment for Employment &amp; Labor</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Students pursuing the </span><span class="basic-text-bold">Human Resource Management Option</span><span class="generated-style"> may wish to consider selecting from the following courses to fulfill elective requirements within the College. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 365 Managing Diversity in Organizations</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 411 Leading People &amp; Projects</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 412 Negotiating &amp; Conflict Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 414 Leadership in a Global Context</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ECON 481 Economics of the Labor Market</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">OPTION: Entrepreneurship and Innovation</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">Required Courses:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 421/ENTR 421 Initiating &amp; Managing Entrepreneurial Growth</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 422/ENTR 422 Managing Rapid Growth &amp; Change in Organizations</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 423/ENTR 423 Business Plan Development &amp; Decision Making</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">One course from the following list:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MNGT/ENTR 322 Family Business</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 365 Managing Diversity in Organizations</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 411 Leading People &amp; Projects</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 412 Negotiating &amp; Conflict Management </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 345 Market Research</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Students pursuing the </span><span class="basic-text-bold">Entrepreneurship and Innovation Option</span><span class="generated-style"> may wish to consider selecting from the following courses to fulfill elective requirements within the College. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 365 Managing Diversity in Organizations</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 412 Negotiating &amp; Conflict Management </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 464 Talent Acquisition &amp; Staffing</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 345 Market Research</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">OPTION: Leadership in Organizations</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">Required Courses:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 411 Leading People &amp; Projects</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 412 Negotiating &amp; Conflict Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 413 Building Ethical &amp; Sustainable Organizations</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 414 Leadership in a Global Context</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Students pursuing the </span><span class="basic-text-bold">Leadership in Organizations Option</span><span class="generated-style"> may wish to consider selecting from the following courses to fulfill elective requirements within the College.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 365 Managing Diversity in Organizations</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 421/ENTR 421 Initiating &amp; Managing Entrepreneurial Growth</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 422 Business Plan Development &amp; Decision Making</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 464 Talent Acquisition &amp; Staffing</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SCMS 436 Project Management</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">OPTION: General Management</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This Option is open to students who do not wish to specialize in one of the specified Options of the management major. In addition to the three core courses for the management Option, students must take 12 additional hours (four courses): three of these courses must be selected from the management options (Human Resource Management, Leadership, and Entrepreneurship, and one elective from the management or supply chain management systems course offerings. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Required Courses - 12 hours (four courses)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from each Option:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">Human Resource Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">Entrepreneurship and Innovation</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">Leadership in Organizations</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">Select</span><span class="requirement-ital"> </span><span class="generated-style">one elective from the management or supply chain management systems course offerings</span><span class="requirement-ital">.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="basic-text-bold">(</span><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE: </span><span class="generated-style">SCMS courses that are cross-listed with MRKT are not allowed in this requirement.) </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Students pursuing the </span><span class="basic-text-bold">General Management Option</span><span class="generated-style"> may select from the course bulletin to fulfill elective requirements within the College. </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Additional restrictions beyond those noted per individual courses above include:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">NBR 6–ACE 9 – MNGT 365 or MNGT 414 can be double counted to fulfill NBR 6–ACE 9 AND course work for the major.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 414 may also be counted for the IBCR. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">In any option where double counting is permitted, only 3 hours of credit are used; students must still meet the 120 hour requirement for the degree. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">In any option where double counting is permitted for NBR requirements and the major, course work cannot, in turn, be used for any minor.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 121/ENTR 121, MNGT 331, MNGT 350/MIST 350/SCMS 350, MNGT 360, MNGT 398, MNGT 399 (Independent Study), and MNGT 475 may NOT be counted toward the major.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">BSAD 491 may count for a maximum of 3 hours credit, only for those students who take it as part of the Nebraska at China Education Abroad Program or the Senshu University Program, or for a transfer course from an international institution for which ‘management-related’ course work was done, evaluated, and approved for credit toward the major. </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR THE MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT </span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The management minor is available to College of Business Administration students only. The college expects that 50% of the course work for the minor will be completed at UNL.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Management course work used for this minor cannot be double counted toward business core foundation (BCF) intermediate (BCI) or advanced-major (BCA-M; BCA-C) degree requirements, for another major, or any other business minor requirements. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All course work for the management minor must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 399, MNGT 499, may NOT be used toward the minor.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">To fulfill the requirements for a management minor, students must complete 12 graded hours of 300/400-level management course work.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Electives</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style"> As noted in the Options area, students may choose to take elective course work required for the degree in the suggested course options as listed under the areas of Options. See College Degree Requirements–Electives for additional options/restrictions regarding elective credit for the degree. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">C- and D Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College Grade rules.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College Pass/No Pass limits.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College GPA requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Level Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style"> MNGT 475 Business Policies and Strategies is the capstone requirement for ALL business students and is to be taken the final semester in the program. Refer to the course description for other specific course prerequisites. This course may NOT be used toward the major (BCA-M).</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
