<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Marketing</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="marketing">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Marketing</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 hours for degree (18 hours for the major) </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.5 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes–for CBA students only</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: TBA</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Carlson, Gentry, Sohi</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Ball, Kennedy, Saini</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Friend</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span><span class="generated-style"> Simon</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The field of marketing includes many different career opportunities such as advertising, distribution, marketing research, merchandising, marketing communication, retailing, product management, sports marketing, professional selling, and sales management. The management of activities related to the flow of both goods and services from producer to consumer has become increasingly important in this age of consumer-oriented production. This importance has increased the demand for well-qualified persons, both as specialists in technical aspects of marketing and as general marketing managers. New developments are appearing in quantitative analysis of marketing problems, in studies of consumer behavior, in international marketing, and in the social responsibilities of marketing. These developments hold exciting promise for the future.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Academic preparation for some careers is best achieved by combining marketing courses with courses in other departments of the University. For this reason it is important for the student to consult with a faculty member in the Department of Marketing before deciding on a particular course of study. Courses within the department include those from the following disciplines: Marketing, Marketing Communication, Distribution Channels, Retailing, Sales Management, Marketing Research, Professional Selling, Sports Marketing, Consumer Behavior, and International Marketing. Outside the College, courses in psychology, sociology, journalism, mathematics, communication studies, art, and geography may be helpful.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Major/Department Admission</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University Admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All students, regardless of their major or interests in the College will take MRKT 341 Marketing as part of the Business Core Intermediate requirements.</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 18 hours of course work for the major.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">As noted in the College Degree Requirements section, all course work for the major must be taken for a grade.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 399/ MRKT 499 may not count toward the major or minor in marketing.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Due to the major consisting of only 18 hours of marketing course work, marketing majors will take an additional business elective as part of their business elective requirement. See ELECTIVES for additional information to meet the 60 hours of business course work for the degree.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for students interested in pursuing the bachelor of science degree with a major in marketing will complete 18 hours of marketing course work (plus MRKT 341 for the Business Core Intermediate requirement) for the Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M): </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">9 required hours selected from:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 346 Marketing Channels Management or MRKT 347 Marketing Communication Strategy</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 345 Market Research or MRKT 350 Marketing Information Systems </span><span class="list-ital">(if not taken in Business Core Intermediate) </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 442 Marketing Management </span><span class="list-ital">(capstone requirement for the marketing major taken during the final semester in the program. Refer to course description for other specific course prerequisites.)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">9 additional hours of marketing to be selected from the following courses:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 225/AECN 225/EAEP 225 Agribusiness Entrepreneurship in Food Products Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 325/AECN 325 Marketing of Agricultural Commodities</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 346 Marketing Channels Management </span><span class="list-ital">(if not selected for above requirement)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 347 Marketing Communication Strategy </span><span class="list-ital">(if not selected for above requirement)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 350 Marketing Information Systems </span><span class="list-ital">(if not selected or in lieu of MRKT 345)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 357 Professional Selling</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 425 Retailing Management</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 426 Services Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 428 Sports Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 441 Marketing &amp; Electronic Commerce</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 443 Consumer Behavior: Marketing Aspects</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 444 Logistics</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 446 Quantitative Analysis in Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 449 Marketing Communication Campaigns</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 450 Strategic Database Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 453 International Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 458 Sales Management</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 490 Special Topics in Marketing</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 399 may </span><span class="basic-text-bold">not</span><span class="generated-style"> be used toward the major</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">As part of the Business Core Intermediate (BCI) requirements, marketing majors </span><span class="basic-text-ital">may</span><span class="generated-style"> substitute MRKT 350 for the MNGT 350 requirement.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Note that although only one of MRKT 346 and MRKT 347 and one of MRKT 345 or MRKT 350 is required, a student may elect to take all, two as required and the other two as part of the 9 hours of marketing electives. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The marketing curriculum specifies that MRKT 442 </span><span class="basic-text-bold">cannot</span><span class="generated-style"> be taken until MRKT 341, MRKT 345 or MRKT 350, and either MRKT 346 or MRKT 347 have been completed.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Students participating in the Pan Pacific Study Tour may use the approved Study Tour courses (MNGT 398 and BSAD 491) as 6 hours of marketing electives for the major. </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">While not required, students majoring in marketing may choose to pursue three different options and have these minors declared to pursue the course options. Course work will count toward the ELECTIVES in the College.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Advertising Emphasis requirements (12 hours):</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">9 hours required:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">JOUR 101 Principles of Mass Media (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ADVT 251 Principles of Strategic Communication (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">ADVT 283 Writing for Strategic Communications (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">3 hours (one course) </span><span class="list-ital">selected from the following</span><span class="generated-style">: </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">ADVT 450 Public Relations Theory, Strategy &amp; Management (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">ADVT 451 Advertising &amp; Public Relations Techniques (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">ADVT 484 Advertising Management (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">ADVT 488 Media Sales &amp; Promotion (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">JOUR 485 Mass Media History (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">JOUR 486 Mass Media Law</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">JOUR 487 Mass Media &amp; Society</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">JGEN 498 Special Topics</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">JOUR 101 and ADVT 251 have no prerequisites. At least one of the two should be completed before ADVT 283. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">ADVT 283 must be completed before any of the 400-level courses.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">All other prerequisites are waived for marketing majors.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Marketing majors may minor in textiles, clothing and design by choosing either a Merchandising Track or a Merchandising/Design Track.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Minor in Textiles, Clothing and Design: Merchandising Track requirements (15 hours)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">Required:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TXCD 206 Textiles (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TXCD 213 Merchandising I: Textile &amp; Apparel Industry (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TXCD 313 Merchandising II: Merchandise Buying &amp; Control (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="list-ital">Also select two courses from the following:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TXCD 405 Advanced Textiles (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TXCD 407 History of Costume (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TXCD 408 History of Textiles (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TXCD 410 Socio-Psychological Aspects of Clothing (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TXCD 413 Merchandising III: Merchandise Development &amp; Sourcing (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Minor in Textiles, Clothing and Design: Merchandising/Design Track requirements (21 hours)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">Required:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TXCD 141A Visual Literacy Lab: Color (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TXCD 141B Visual Literacy Lab: Speculative Drawing (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TXCD 143 Visual Literacy: Art &amp; Design (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TXCD 206 Textiles (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TXCD 213 Merchandising I: Textile &amp; Apparel Industry (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TXCD 313 Merchandising II: Merchandise Buying &amp; Control (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TXCD 314 Visual Merchandising (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">TXCD 413 Merchandising III: Merchandise Development &amp; Sourcing (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minor Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Refer to: Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Enrollment in upper-level marketing courses requires completion of MRKT 341 as well as other prerequisites. Refer to course descriptions for specific course prerequisites.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">C- and D Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College grade rules.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College Pass/No Pass limits.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College GPA requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Level Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style"> MRKT 442 Marketing Management is the capstone requirement for the marketing major taken during the final semester in the program. Refer to course description for other specific course prerequisites.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Marketing Minor</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">The marketing minor is available to College of Business Administration students only. The college expects that 50% of the course work for the minor will be completed at UNL.</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">Marketing course work used for this minor </span><span class="basic-text-bold">cannot</span><span class="generated-style"> be double counted toward business core foundation (BCF) intermediate (BCI) or advanced-major (BCA-M; BCA-A) degree requirements, for another major, nor any other business minor requirements. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">To fulfill the requirements for a marketing minor, students must complete:</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">Twelve (12) graded hours of 300/400-level marketing course work. </span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">All course work for the minor must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass).</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-2"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 399 may not be used toward the minor (or major).</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The marketing department requires and enforces that specific prerequisite requirements be completed by the first class meeting. Concurrent registration in a class that is a prerequisite for another class is </span><span class="basic-text-bold">not</span><span class="generated-style"> allowed. Transfer credit assumes that the prerequisites have been transferred to UNL and appear on the transcripts.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The marketing department reserves the right to administratively drop students who do not attend the first class meeting and/or who do not have the appropriate prerequisites for any marketing class.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
