<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Microbiology (ASC)</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="microbiology-asc-">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Microbiology (ASC)</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Microbiology</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: James R. Alfano, Department of Plant Pathology and Center for Plant Science Innovation </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Advisory Committee: </span><span class="generated-style">Jim Alfano (co-chair), Dept. of Plant Pathology; Audrey Atkin (co-chair), School of Biological Sciences; Blum, School of Biological Sciences; Hutkins, Dept. of Food Science and Technology; Moxley, School of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences; Spreitzer, Dept. of Biochemistry; Zhang, Nebraska Center for Virology and School of Biological Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Academic Adviser: </span><span class="generated-style">TBA</span><span class="faculty-list-bold"> </span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website: </span><span class="generated-style">http://microbiology.unl.edu</span><span class="faculty-list-bold"> </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The microbiology is an interdepartmental major that offers educational opportunities in various areas of microbiology leading to a bachelor of science degree in microbiology. The training offered is suitable for a professional career in microbiology, which may lead to employment in the food industry, clinical microbiology, biotechnology, and pharmaceuticals; or federal agencies such as the Food and Drug Administration, U.S. Department of Agriculture, U.S. Public Health Service, and Environmental Protection Agency. The program is also suitable as preparation for graduate studies leading to academic careers and professional careers in medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, pharmacy, and health-related fields. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students interested in majoring in microbiology are advised to make an appointment with the academic adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students concerned about their preparation for college-level biology should take BIOS 101 and BIOS 101L prior to BIOS 102. Please consult your adviser if in doubt.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements (13-14 credit hours) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 312 Microbiology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 313 Molecular Microbiology Lab (2 cr) </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 314 Microbiology Lab (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 440 Microbial Physiology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 420 Molecular Genetics (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 443 Immunology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Natural Sciences (37-38 credit hours) </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> If you plan to take BIOC 431, it will increase your Natural Sciences hours by 3 credits and put you over the 38 credit hours for natural sciences. Adjustments may need to be made in other areas. </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 102 Cell Structure &amp; Function (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 103 &amp; BIOS 103L Organismic Biology &amp; Lab (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 206 Genetics (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 General Chemistry I &amp; II (8 cr) [or CHEM 113 &amp; CHEM 114 Fundamentals of Chemistry I &amp; II &amp; CHEM 116 Quantitative Chemistry Lab (9 cr)] </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">If you plan to take BIOC 321, select one sequence from:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 261 &amp; CHEM 263 Organic Chemistry &amp; Lab (5 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 255 &amp; CHEM 257 Intro to Organic Chemistry &amp; Lab (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">If you plan to take BIOC 431, select one sequence from:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab (4 cr) &amp; CHEM 252 Organic Chemistry I (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 261 &amp; CHEM 263 Organic Chemistry &amp; Lab (5 cr) &amp; CHEM 262 Organic Chemistry (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">PHYS 141 &amp; PHYS 142 Elementary General Physics I &amp; II (10 cr) [or PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 221 General Physics I &amp; Lab (5 cr) &amp; PHYS 212 &amp; PHYS 222 General Physics II &amp; Lab (5 cr)]</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 321 &amp; BIOC 321L Elements of Biochemistry &amp; Lab (or BIOC 431 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism) (4 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 207 Ecology and Evolution is also recommended for students specializing in Applied, Environmental, and Plant Microbiology or who are interested in epidemiology. </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Mathematics and Statistics (8 credit hours) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MATH 106 Analytical Geometry &amp; Calculus I (5 cr) [or MATH 106B Calculus I for Biology &amp; Medicine (5 cr)]</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">STAT 218 Intro to Statistics (or one of EDPS 459, ECON 215, STAT 380) (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">College Distribution (16-22 credit hours)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Remaining ACE Courses (18 credit hours)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">Select one course each from ACE outcomes 1, 2, 5, 7, 8, and 9.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Microbiology Electives</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="header-paragraph-title">(12-18 credit hours, a minimum of 12 hours from the list below) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 432 Gene Expression &amp; Replication (2 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 433 Biochemistry Lab (2 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 302 Advanced Cell Structure and Function (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 326 Biology of Viruses (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 441/VBMS 441 Pathogenic Microbiology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 444/GEOL 444 Geomicrobiology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 445/FDST 405 Food Microbiology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 446/FDST 406 Food Microbiology Lab (2 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 447/AGRO 460 Soil Microbiology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 477 Bioinformatics and Molecular Evolution (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 487 Field Parasitology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 497 Environmental Microbiology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FDST 455 Microbiology of Fermented Foods (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">FDST 455L Microbiology of Fermented Foods Lab (1 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">PLPT 369/BIOS 369 Intro to Plant Pathology (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">PLPT 369L Intro to Plant Pathology Lab (1 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">PLPT 370/AGRO 370/HORT 370 Biology of Fungi (3 cr)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">VBMS 424 Basic Molecular Infectious Diseases (3 cr) </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Within the same subject matter area, students may request substitution for an elective course at the 300 level or above. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> To gauge the effectiveness of the program, majors within their senior year will be required to complete selected assessment activities. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Results of participation in these assessment activities will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students majoring in microbiology may not take any of the courses required for the major in microbiology as Pass/No Pass except for courses involving independent study, research, and seminars.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
