<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Modern_Languages_Spanish_Minor_(ENGR)</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="modern-languages-spanish-minor-engr-">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Modern Languages–Spanish Minor (ENGR)</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Engineering </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Modern Languages–Spanish (Minor only) </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Minor only</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Plan A–12 hrs; Plan B–6 hrs</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">This minor is for engineering majors ONLY.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The College of Engineering enables its students to participate in this approved minor subject to the following conditions:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. A minor will not reduce or alter the existing course or degree requirements for students electing to pursue a minor.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. A student’s minor program must be organized and approved by an adviser prior to the submission of the senior check to the department chair or head.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. The minor must be approved by the adviser, the department chair or head, the Dean and the cognizant program offering the minor.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. The College of Engineering will follow the “Plan A/B” format of the Arts and Sciences College in which a student pursuing a single minor must complete the “Plan A” requirements. A student pursuing a double (or greater) minor must fulfill either the “Plan A” or “Plan B” requirements for both minors depending on which plan is offered by the cognizant department.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Minors on the Lincoln or Omaha campuses may be added by approval of the College of Engineering Curriculum Committee and faculty.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A Minor. </span><span class="generated-style">12 hours at the 303 level and above.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan B Minor. </span><span class="generated-style">6 hours at the 303 level and above.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
