<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Philosophy</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="philosophy">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Philosophy</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Philosophy</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISERS:</span><span class="generated-style"> Reina Hayaki, Harry Ide</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Joseph Mendola,</span><span class="generated-style"> 1009 Oldfather Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors: </span><span class="generated-style">Casullo, Henderson, Mendola, Sobel, van Roojen</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Becker, Dowell, Gibbons, Hayaki, Ide, McKitrick</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bronfman</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Philosophy is the critical study of the fundamental concepts and assumptions involved in all central areas of human experience, including religion, morality, science, and art. The department offers an introduction to philosophy course designed for the general student, as well as introductory courses in logic and current issues.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The basic philosophy curriculum includes courses in the </span><span class="basic-text-ital">history of philosophy</span><span class="generated-style"> covering the period which begins with the development of rational inquiry by the philosophers of ancient Greece and which concludes with the construction of the modern philosophical systems of the Enlightenment as well as courses in each of the major fields of philosophical study: </span><span class="basic-text-ital">ethics</span><span class="generated-style">, which is concerned with the basis of morality; </span><span class="basic-text-ital">metaphysics</span><span class="generated-style">, which explores different views about what fundamentally exists; </span><span class="basic-text-ital">epistemology</span><span class="generated-style">, which examines the nature and limits of human knowledge; and </span><span class="basic-text-ital">logic</span><span class="generated-style">, which studies general methods of reasoned argument and analysis.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A number of courses reflect the role of philosophy in investigating the fundamental concepts and assumptions of other disciplines, including courses in medical ethics, the philosophy of law, the philosophy of science, and the philosophy of mathematics.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Other courses focus on the role of philosophy in the critical analysis of basic evaluative conceptions and assumptions. Courses in political philosophy critically examine the evaluative concepts and assumptions involved in our beliefs about government, individual liberty, and social and economic justice. Courses in the philosophy of religion do the same for beliefs about the nature and existence of God and about the relations between faith and knowledge.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The department also offers courses in </span><span class="basic-text-ital">aesthetics</span><span class="generated-style">, the philosophical study of art, music, and literature understood as fundamental forms of human culture and significant expressions of the human spirit.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The interdisciplinary character of philosophy, together with its focus on evaluative issues and its unique emphasis on general methods of reasoned argument and analysis, leads to an unusually broad and intellectually sound major for students preparing themselves for such professions as law, medicine, social work, government service, and the ministry. The philosophy major is indispensable for those who wish to prepare for a career as a philosopher within a college or university setting.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students interested in majoring in philosophy or in selecting philosophy courses specially relevant to their studies are invited to visit with the chief adviser for the department or the department chair.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All prospective majors must consult and register with a departmental undergraduate adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. A minimum of 30 hours of philosophy, with at least 24 hours in courses numbered 200 or above, and at least 12 hours in courses numbered 300 or above.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. PHIL 400 Undergraduate Seminar in Philosophy</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. At least one of the following courses: </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 110 Intro to Logic &amp; Critical Thinking </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 211 Intro to Modern Logic</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. At least three of the following courses:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 231 History of Philosophy (Ancient)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 232 History of Philosophy (Modern)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 301 Theory of Knowledge</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 302 Intro to Metaphysics</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 320 Ethical Theory</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required to complete an annual survey in the spring semester.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Results of participation in this assessment activity will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">There are no prerequisites for courses below the 300 level. The prerequisites for courses at the 300 level are 3 hours or permission, unless otherwise stated. The prerequisites for courses at the 400 level are 9 hours of philosophy or permission, unless otherwise stated.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Independent study courses (PHIL 299 and PHIL 399) must be antecedently approved by a Department of Philosophy undergraduate adviser if they are to count toward satisfying the major requirements. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. A minimum of 15 hours in philosophy, with at least 12 hours in courses numbered 200 or above, and at least 6 hours in courses numbered 300 or above;</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. At least two of the following courses:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 211 Intro to Modern Logic</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 231 History of Philosophy (Ancient) </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 232. History of Philosophy (Modern)</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 301 Theory of Knowledge</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 302 Intro to Metaphysics</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">PHIL 320 Ethical Theory</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
