<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Psychology</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="psychology">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Psychology</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Psychology</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Celeste Spier</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Rick Bevins,</span><span class="generated-style"> 238 Burnett Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Vice Chairs: </span><span class="generated-style">David DiLillo and Eve Brank, 238 Burnett Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors: </span><span class="generated-style">Belli, Bevins, Bornstein, Crockett, DiLillo, Garbin, Hansen, Hope, Leger, Molfese, Pope-Edwards, Spaulding, Tomkins, Wiener, Wilcox</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors: </span><span class="generated-style">Hoffman, Li, McChargue, Scalora, Schutte, Willis-Esqueda</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors: </span><span class="generated-style">Brank, Dodd, Gervais, Nelson, Stevens, Stoltenberg</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The undergraduate degree program in psychology is designed to provide students with educational experiences that are conducive to entering diverse careers ranging from academic psychology to such applied fields as counseling, business, and human services. Careful selection of courses from within the required groups and of supplementary courses in psychology and related fields will help students pursue their chosen career. Students who plan to major in psychology should meet with a departmental adviser as early as possible to plan a program of courses consistent with their interests and goals.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span><span class="generated-style"> Graduate programs leading to the doctor of philosophy degree are offered in the department. A detailed description of these courses appears in the </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span><span class="generated-style">.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. PSYC 181</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. PSYC 100</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Two courses from each of the following groups:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Group 1 (natural science): PSYC 233, PSYC 263, PSYC 268, PSYC 270, PSYC 360, PSYC 373</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Group 2 (social science): PSYC 287, PSYC 288, PSYC 289, PSYC 380</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. PSYC 350</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. One course from each of the following groups:</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Group 1 (natural science): PSYC 456, PSYC 460, PSYC 461, PSYC 463, PSYC 464, PSYC 465, PSYC 466, or BIOS 462</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">Group 2 (social science): PSYC 462, PSYC 483, PSYC 485, PSYC 486, PSYC 488, PSYC 489</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">6. Any two additional 400-level courses, excluding 496, 497, 499.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">7. Total credit hours required: 33</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">Appropriate credit toward the psychology major requirements will be granted for psychology courses that are cross-listed in other departments but taken in another department. Credit toward the major will be granted even if the course is applied to another major or minor.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, selected majors will be required:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. To submit copies of work produced in 200-, 300-, and 400-level courses to an assessment committee.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. In their last semester, to complete a written exit survey.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Results of participation in these assessment activities will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minor Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">For students pursuing a BA degree, a minor is required, either Plan A or Plan B. Plan A consists of one minor; Plan B consists of two minors. Check individual department listings for requirements. For students pursuing a BS degree, no minor is required.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Up to 6 hours of Pass/No Pass credit may be taken in major requirements. Majors may take up to 6 hours Pass/No Pass in their minor(s), subject to the approval of the department(s) granting the minor(s). Students minoring in this department may take up to 6 hours Pass/No Pass.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Plan A (1 minor):</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. PSYC 181</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. 14 credit hours at the 200 level or above, 9 of which must be at the 300 level or above.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">Minimum: 18 credit hours</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Plan B (2 minors):</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. PSYC 181</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Plus three other courses at the 200 level or above.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">Minimum: 12 credit hours.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">No more than 3 hours from the following courses can count toward the minor: PSYC 296, PSYC 297, PSYC 299, PSYC 396, PSYC 496, PSYC 497, or PSYC 499.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
