<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Social Science Education (7-12)</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="social-science-education-7-12-">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Social Science Education (7-12)</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Education &amp; Human Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEPARTMENT:</span><span class="generated-style"> Teaching, Learning &amp; Teacher Education</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span><span class="generated-style"> Social Science Education (7-12) </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span><span class="generated-style"> 2.5 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Beverly Jensen</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who complete this field endorsement are endorsed to teach history, anthropology, economics, geography, political science, psychology, and sociology in grades 7 through 12.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">General Information </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College offers undergraduate programs leading to a bachelor of science in education and human sciences degree in more than 40 different teaching endorsements. Some students in other UNL colleges choose to seek certification, completing a degree in their home college while meeting all requirements for teacher certification in the College of Education and Human Sciences.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Early field placement in public and private schools is a nationally recognized hallmark of the teacher education program in the College of Education and Human Sciences. While internships are a valuable enhancement to many students’ education, in the College of Education and Human Sciences, practicum experiences and student teaching are a critical and essential part of the curriculum and these must be successfully completed in order to be certified in the teaching profession. A student’s inability to complete these field experiences, for any reason, may adversely impact the candidate’s ability to gain admission into the College or maintain enrollment in a teacher preparation program. Students unlikely or unable to complete the field experience may be counseled to seek other opportunities where success is more attainable. (See “Felony and Misdemeanor Conviction” and “Professional and Ethical Behavior” under the OTHER heading for additional information with respect to behaviors impacting field experience participation.)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Teacher education endorsements (or majors) are divided into field endorsements or single-subject endorsements. Field endorsements certify the candidate to teach a broader range of courses compared to single-subject endorsements, which certify the candidate to teach in one subject area only. Consequently, a teacher holding a field endorsement is typically more marketable than a teacher holding a single-subject endorsement. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Candidates may also elect to complete requirements for supplemental endorsements; these are additional endorsements that can be added to a field or single-subject endorsement but cannot be taken alone. Supplemental endorsements require additional credit hours beyond those needed for the first endorsement (field or single-subject). Teachers may increase their marketability by adding supplemental endorsements. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students may also choose to complete requirements for two endorsements simultaneously. Completing a second endorsement will require additional credit hours beyond those required for the first endorsement. Often the completion of two endorsements requires more than 120 credit hours of course work and may require additional semesters of course work. Students may contact the College Student Services Center, 105 Henzlik Hall, or their adviser, for assistance in deciding whether to complete: field or single-subject endorsements, one or more supplemental endorsements, or multiple endorsements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Degree at a Glance</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Requirements 31</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 1. 3</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 2. COMM 109 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> COMM 209 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> COMM 210 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-Professional Education Requirement)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 3. 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 4. GEOG 155 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Endorsement Requirement)</span><span class="generated-style"> 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 5. HIST 110 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Endorsement Requirement)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 6. EDPS 251 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-Professional Education Requirement)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 7. 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 8. TEAC 331 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-Professional Education Requirement)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 9. TEAC 330 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-Professional Education Requirement)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 10. TEAC 403B </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Education Requirement)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Professional Education Requirements 4</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">EDPS 297 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 259 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Social Science 7-12 Endorsement Requirements 55-56</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">*HIST 111 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">*HIST 120 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">HIST 360 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">HIST Group A 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">HIST Group B 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">HIST Group C 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">*ANTH 110 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 212 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ANTH 232 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ANTH 242 &amp; ANTH 242L 3-4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">*ECON 211 &amp; *ECON 212 6 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 140 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">GEOG 334 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> GEOG 370 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">POLS 100 &amp; POLS 232 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">PSYC 181 &amp; POLS 288 7 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 101 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 200 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> SOCI 201 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> SOCI 217 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> SOCI 225 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional Education Requirements 25</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 451W 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 452W 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 397W 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">*EDPS 457 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">SPED 401B 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 497W 10 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Electives 4-5</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Hours 120</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">* These courses are also approved ACE courses and together with the 31 hours of ACE Required Courses meet the additional ACE/General Education requirements for secondary education students.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">ACE Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Additional ACE Course Work for Secondary Education</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Secondary education students need additional ACE courses for a total of 40 hours to meet the requirements for the Nebraska Department of Education. One of the ACE courses must be an approved speech course. At least two of the ACE courses must be at the 300/400 level. Once again, there may be required courses within your program that will also satisfy these additional ACE requirements. Contact your adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All education programs have a competitive admission process. At some point in time, after meeting specific education requirements, all students must formally apply to their particular education program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Education Status</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All newly admitted students who are pursuing a teacher preparation program are classified as pre-education students until admitted to a specific Teacher Education Program.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission to a Teacher Education Program (TEP)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the College of Education and Human Sciences does not guarantee admission into a teacher education program. Admission to the advanced phases of teacher education is selective and, in some endorsements, highly competitive. Students must satisfy the following requirements in order to be eligible to apply to the Teacher Education Program:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. A minimum 2.5 cumulative GPA.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Must have earned a minimum of 42 credit hours of college credit.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Completion and submission of the Teacher Education Program Application Form.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Completion of TEAC 331 and EDPS 251 or an approved transfer course, (must be taken prior to or be in progress, the semester in which you apply to the TEP) with a 2.5 cumulative average in the two classes, and no grade lower than C; TEAC 259 (must also be taken prior to or be in progress, the semester in which you apply to the TEP).</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Documentation of proficiency in reading, writing, and mathematics through successful completion of the Praxis I, Pre-Professional Skills Test (PPST), a basic skills examination that meets the Nebraska Department of Education competency requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">6. Completion of one course in communication studies selected from COMM 109, COMM 205, COMM 209, COMM 210, or COMM 286, or approved substitute.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">7. Faculty recommendations.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">8. Completion of a personal and professional fitness self-disclosure form as well as the completion of a formal criminal history review.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">9. Specific programs may have particular learning outcomes that students must address as part of the application process.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Admission to Student Teaching</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All students who are candidates for an appropriately endorsed Nebraska Teacher’s Certificate are required to student teach. Students who plan to student teach in the fall semester must complete the student teaching application form and submit it by the preceding March 1 to the Director of Field Experiences in 116 Henzlik Hall; students planning to student teach in the spring semester must apply by the preceding October 1. The basic program for student teaching provides for a full-day experience for an entire semester. Admission to student teaching requires the following:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Matriculation in a teacher education program in the College of Education and Human Sciences, the Graduate College, or dual matriculation in the College of Education and Human Sciences and another college.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Admission to a specific teacher education program.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Senior standing (89 hours or more) with a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Minimum grade point average of 2.5 in the endorsement area with no grade below C.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. A minimum grade point average of 2.5 in pre-professional and professional education courses and no grade below C in pre-professional education courses and no grade below a C+ in professional education courses.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">6. All endorsement, pre-professional and professional education course work must be completed prior to student teaching. If necessary, no more than 6 hours of general education (ACE) or elective classes can be completed after the student teaching experience.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">7. No additional course work can be taken during the student teaching semester unless prior approval is obtained from the Certification Officer, the Director of Field Experiences, or the Department Chair that oversees the program.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">8. Completion of a criminal history check that will be conducted by an independent party (fee required). For more information, contact the Director of Field Experiences.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Endorsement Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">80% of these endorsement requirements must be completed prior to enrolling in your first professional methods course.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">**HIST 120 World History to 1500 CE</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">**HIST 110 American History to 1877</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">**HIST 111 American History after 1877</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 360 History of Nebraska &amp; the Great Plains</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">**ANTH 110 Intro to Anthropology</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one of the following anthropology courses: </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 212 Intro to Cultural Anthropology </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 232 Intro to Prehistory</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ANTH 242 &amp; ANTH 242L Intro to Physical Anthropology &amp; Lab </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">**ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">**ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">**GEOG 140 Introductory Human Geography</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">**GEOG 155 Elements of Physical Geography w/lab</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one of the following geography courses:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style"> GEOG 334 Historical Geography of the Great Plains</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style"> GEOG 370 Geography of Nebraska</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">POLS 100 Power &amp; Politics in America</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">POLS 232 Public Issues in America</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PSYC 181 Intro to Psychology</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">PSYC 288 Psychology of Social Behavior</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SOCI 101 Intro to Sociology</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from the following sociology courses:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style"> SOCI 200 Women in Contemporary Society </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style"> SOCI 201 Social Problems </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style"> SOCI 217 Nationality &amp; Race Relations</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style"> SOCI 225 Marriage &amp; the Family</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Group A–U.S. and Canadian History</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 205 History of Canada</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 241 Native American History </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 243 Early America to 1800</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 244 19th Century America</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 245 Modern America Since 1900</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 246 African-American History: African Origins to 1877 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 247 African-American History: After 1877 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 249 History of the American Family</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 303 U.S. Military History, 1607-1917</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 304 U.S. Military History since 1917</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 334 Colonial America</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 335 The Era of the American Revolution</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 340 American Legal History</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 341 American Constitutional History I</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 343 American Urban &amp; Social History I</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 344 American Urban &amp; Social History II</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 345 History of the American Presidency</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 346 North American Environmental History</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 347 America &amp; the World to 1914</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 348 America &amp; the World Since 1914</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 350 Ideas in America </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 351 American West to 1900</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 352 American West Since 1900</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 353 From Progressivism to the Great Crash</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 354 The Era of Franklin D. Roosevelt</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 355 Post-World War II America</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 357 Mexican-American History </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 358 Native American Women </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 359 The Mystic West</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 363 History of Women &amp; Gender in the American West</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 364 Slavery &amp; Emancipation in U.S. History</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 366 African-Americans &amp; the Politics of Race: From the New Deal to the New Right</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 375 Women &amp; Work in United States History </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 400 Seminar in Great Plains Studies</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 411 Indians in American Popular Culture</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 441 Seminar in U.S. Women’s &amp; Gender History</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 442 Antebellum America 1800-1850</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 445 The American Civil War &amp; Reconstruction</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 446 America in the “Gilded Age”</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 456 Black and/or African-American Women’s History</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 457 19th Century United States Economic History</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 458 20th Century United States Economic History</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 460 The Civil Rights Movement</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 464 Native American History: Selected Topics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 465 History of Plains Indians</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 468 Cultural History of Native America</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Group B–European History</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 100 Western Civilization to 1715</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 101 Western Civilization Since 1715</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 209 Ancient Greece</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 210 Ancient Rome </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 211 History of the Middle Ages</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 212 History of Early Modern Europe: Renaissance to the French Revolution </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 216 History of Christianity</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 221 Science in History</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 231 History of England: Stonehenge through the Glorious Revolution</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 232 History of England Since the Glorious Revolution</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 261 Russia to the Era of Catherine the Great</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 262 Russia: The 19th Century to the Present</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 307 Early Christianity</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 311 Homer &amp; the Trojan War</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 315 Medieval World: Byzantium</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 317 The Roman Empire </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 319 The Crusades</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 321 Renaissance &amp; Humanism</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 322 European Culture in Confessional Age 1550-1700</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 324 The Cold War</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 325 France Since the French Revolution</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 327 19th Century Germany</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 328 History of Germany: 1914 to Present </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 329 Women in European History </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 330 Contemporary Europe</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 332 Jews in the Middle Ages </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 333 Jews in the Modern World </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 338 War &amp; Peace in Europe: 1914 to the Present</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 339 The Holocaust</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 361 Czech History &amp; Culture</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 362 Eastern Europe &amp; the Balkans Since 1815</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 368 History of Terrorism in the Modern World</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 409 Religion of Late Western Antiquity</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 412 Democracy &amp; Tyranny in Classical Athens</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 414 Medieval Culture</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 417 The Roman Revolution, 133 BC -68 AD</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 420 The Italian Renaissance</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 421 The German Reformation</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 422 The Scientific Revolution</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 423 The European Enlightenment</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 424 European Social &amp; Cultural History Since 1815</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 429 History of Fascism in Europe</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 430 Early European History Through Biography</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 431 Medieval England </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 432 England: Reformation to Revolution, 1530-1660</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 436 Saints, Witches, &amp; Madwomen</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 462 Recent Russia</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Group C–Latin American, Asian, Middle Eastern &amp; African History</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 150 African Culture &amp; Civilization </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 171 Power &amp; Culture in Latin America </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 181 Intro to East Asian Civilization </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 209 Ancient Greece </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 217 Israel: The Holy Land </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 218 History of Islam </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 219 Intro to Jewish History </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 271 The Latin American Colonies </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 272 The Latin American Republics </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 282 Modern East Asia </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 326 Algeria &amp; France</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 331 Ancient Israel</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 370 Colonial Mexico </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 371 Modern Mexico </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 372 Revolutions in 20th Century Latin America </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 373 Latin America &amp; Global Relations</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 374 History of Brazil</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 381 History of Premodern Japan</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 382 History of Modern Japan </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 383 History of Premodern China </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 385 African Liberation in the African Diaspora</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 466 Early Modern China</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 467 History of China in the 20th Century</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 478 Pro-seminar in Latin American Studies</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 480 The Social &amp; Economic History of China Since the Late Ming Era </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 485 Africa Since 1800 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">HIST 486 History of South Africa </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span><span class="requirement-ital"> Not all courses on these lists of approved courses are taught on a regular basis. Some require junior or senior status.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Professional Education Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">With the exception of EDPS 297 and TEAC 330, students must complete the following before applying to their Teacher Education Program (TEP).</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">**EDPS 251</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">EDPS 297 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 259</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">**TEAC 331</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">**COMM 109, COMM 205, **COMM 209, **COMM 210, or COMM 286, or an approved speech class</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">**TEAC 330</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional Education</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">Students must be admitted into this Teacher Education Program before enrolling in these courses. </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 397, TEAC 451, TEAC 452, EDPS 457, SPED 401B</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">Student Teaching: **TEAC 403B, TEAC 497</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">** These courses also meet ACE requirements. See your adviser.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Requirements in Education Programs</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for completion of an undergraduate degree in a teacher preparation program include a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.5. Students seeking certification must also have a 2.5 GPA in their endorsement and education courses with no grade lower than a C in their pre-professional courses and no grade lower than a C+ in their professional education courses. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Up to 9 hours of transfer credit with grades below C may be applied to the General Education requirements and elective classes in programs leading to the undergraduate degree in teacher preparation. Transfer grades of C- and D may not be used in the major/endorsement area courses or in the professional courses in teacher preparation programs.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Grade Option–for Education Students</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student enrolled at the University may, in certain instances, take a grading option of Pass/No Pass (P/N) for a specific course. A grade of pass represents satisfactory completion of a course with a grade of C or better. Credits earned under the pass grade option count toward graduation, but no grade points are tabulated in the cumulative grade point average. Likewise, a grade of no pass is not tabulated in the grade point average. The following rules apply to students who are enrolled in teacher preparation programs who choose the Pass/No Pass option:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Only one course in each subject endorsement may be taken P/N; two courses in a field endorsement may be taken P/N.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Pre-professional and professional education classes may not be taken P/N unless a class already has a P/N designation.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Any course in the general education requirements unless otherwise stipulated by the department of the course may be taken P/N.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Total P/N credits may not exceed 12 credit hours. This limit does not include courses offered on a P/N only basis.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Beyond Classroom Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In all fields of study, students are expected to attain certain grades and other academic accomplishments in the classroom. In addition to this, students preparing themselves to be teachers, counselors and for other careers in education, are also reviewed to evaluate their ability to successfully and safely interact with children, parents, potential educational employers, and the community-at-large, whose interest in the education of its children often exceeds its concern for other community and governmental services.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Student Teaching Placement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Office of Field Experiences is responsible for the placement of student teachers. Several factors are considered in determining the district and school to which an individual is assigned. The availability of a cooperating teacher and supervisor who meet the requirements established by the Nebraska Department of Education and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln are among those factors. Opportunities to student teach out-of-state are limited and those placements are becoming increasingly difficult. All requests to student teach outside of the immediate Lincoln area must be individually reviewed and approved by the Director of Field Experiences.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Removal from Student Teaching</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students participating in practicum or student teaching assignments may be removed from their assigned schools if their conduct suggests a lack of professional commitment and presents a negative influence on the well-being or learning of the students in the schools. Specific guidelines that all student teachers are to follow can be found in The Student Teaching Experience: A Handbook for the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. If such a problem occurs, at the request of the cooperating teacher, building principal, and the College supervisor, the student will be removed from the school placement by the Director of Field Experiences. In such cases, a written report stating the problem and efforts to correct the situation will be forwarded to the Director of Field Experiences in the College Student Services Center.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Any student removed from a practicum or student teaching assignment may appeal that decision by submitting a written request to the College Appeals Committee within 30 days of the removal. The Appeals Committee will schedule a meeting, request pertinent information from the Director of Field Experiences, and notify the student several days in advance of the scheduled appeal meeting. Students are advised of their right to seek legal advice and may personally attend the Appeals Committee meeting. The Committee’s decision will be forwarded in writing to the student, to the Director of Field Experiences, and to the Dean of the College.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Application for a Nebraska Teaching Certificate</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To actively engage in the teaching profession, a candidate must fulfill both the College degree requirements and the professional certification requirements of the State of Nebraska, Department of Education. Students apply for the teaching certificate online at www.education.ne.gov/tcert/ and apply for the baccalaureate degree in 109 Canfield Administration Building.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To be eligible for a recommendation for certification, a candidate must meet the following requirements:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Earn one or more undergraduate degrees from the College of Education and Human Sciences or another accredited institution approved by the College of Education and Human Sciences with a minimum 2.5 grade point average.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Complete the teacher education general education requirements listed for elementary, middle grades or secondary education.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Complete professional education requirements according to established standards.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Complete endorsement(s) according to established standards.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Successfully complete a required period of student teaching.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">6. Complete application for the degree and certificate.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Graduation Without Certification </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In </span><span class="basic-text-bold">rare</span><span class="generated-style"> cases, permission may be granted for a student to graduate without a recommendation for certification. This provision is for the student who does not qualify for or is removed from student teaching. However, there are times when because of illness or other extreme situations, a student will decide not to complete all professional requirements. In this situation, the student should contact his or her adviser, then complete a formal request to the College’s Certification Officer to be allowed to graduate without completing all certification requirements. If permission is granted, the student is expected to complete all professional requirements except student teaching. This includes a passing grade in all methods courses. If a student fails to complete at least one half of the student teaching assignment, the individual will be required to complete a culminating project not to exceed 6 credit hours.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Any student who graduates without a recommendation for certification will not be recommended for teacher certification in any state.</span><span class="generated-style"> In addition, the student will not be eligible for graduation with honors. If, at some future time, the student wishes to complete certification requirements, (s)he must first appeal for readmission to a teacher education program. At least one semester must pass after graduation before the appeal can be made. If the appeal is granted, the student will be treated as a readmitted student and will complete all requirements in effect at the time of reentry, including passing grades in all methods courses.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Education Employment Services</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Career Services Center, 230 Nebraska Union, offers a professional placement service to students and alumni who are seeking employment in education and related fields. In addition to providing on-campus interviews with select schools throughout the year, this office sponsors an annual Education Recruitment Day in the spring, which offers students an opportunity to interview with hiring officials from many schools.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Felony and Misdemeanor Convictions</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Today’s reality demands that the College, along with the public and private schools that facilitate field experience, are all keenly attuned to the safety of the educational community, and particularly children in the classroom, who interact with those placed as student teachers and in other practicum experiences. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Nebraska Department of Education policy requires that a person with any felony conviction or a misdemeanor conviction involving abuse, neglect, or sexual misconduct shall not be allowed to participate in pre-student teaching laboratory and classroom experiences or student teach without approval of the State Board of Education. To comply with this policy, the College of Education and Human Sciences will require each student to affirm under oath that he/she does not have any convictions in the above-named areas prior to each field experience.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To ensure that each individual complies with this policy, all students who are pursuing a teaching certificate will be required to periodically complete a “Personal and Professional Fitness” form (PPF) as well as submit to two formal reviews of their criminal history, which is conducted by an independent third party. The first review will be completed during the first semester of the individual’s freshman year or upon the individual’s transfer into the College of Education and Human Sciences. At that time, each student will complete the PPF form and will also be expected to submit a request for the review of their criminal history. The PPF form will again be completed and submitted as a part of the application process for the Teacher Education Program. The final review, including the submission of the PPF form and the completion of a second criminal history check, will take place as part of the student teaching application process. Each student is responsible for the cost of the two criminal history reviews. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">If a student does have any felony or any misdemeanor convictions, he/she is required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Field Experience as soon as possible, in order to receive counseling with respect to the impact of the conviction on the student’s future in the College, the State Board of Education approval and, more broadly, on the student’s ability to find success in the profession of education. The College of Education and Human Sciences aims to train and graduate teachers of the highest caliber possible, and therefore, the standards the College sets for its students may be more stringent than the rules the Department of Education sets for field experience. A student should not assume that merely because the State Board of Education would approve placement in the field, that the College is willing to make such a placement, or that a participating partner school is willing to accept the student’s placement into it midst.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The consequences of one conviction compared to another may vary significantly, depending upon the facts underlying the convictions. Those facts are determined by the College. In some instances, the behavior associated with the conviction may be so egregious as to render placement in a field experience virtually impossible. In such instances, termination or long-term suspension from a teaching program may be appropriate. In other instances, a responsible passage of time without further criminal incident may indicate that the student has matured and is ready to reconvene his or her education. Consequences will very likely be different from case to case, as each of these difficult matters is unique. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that the safety of children in the classroom, the best interest of the student, and the reputation of the College, are all recognized and promoted. Failure to honestly disclose a conviction may be cause for disciplinary action separate from the conviction itself. Students willing to honestly address the challenges that arise from the past mistakes are more likely to reach a favorable outcome, than those who further jeopardize their integrity with a lie. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In additional to criminal convictions, other non-criminal behaviors which: involve risks that are unacceptable for future teachers and the children charged to their care; demonstrate a lack of professionalism and good judgment; and evidence a disregard for one’s personal reputation, the integrity of the College and the teaching profession, may bring into question a student’s ability to be successful in an education career. Before engaging in such questionable behavior, students must consider how the College, the profession, educational employer, parents of school-aged children, and the community which is the State of Nebraska, would perceive or evaluate the impact of that behavior with respect to the students’ ability to serve children. To be allowed to teach is a great honor and a great responsibility. Teaching is a profession that requires its potential candidates to be individuals of the highest integrity. Prospective teachers must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and for their students. They serve as important role models and mentors for children during very impressionable years. Teachers are responsible for the education, safety and well-being for anyone in their charge. Indeed, teachers hold the future of all in their care. Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences is most interested in training future teachers who show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act responsibly. These individuals must be able to serve as representatives of our College and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Should the College, through the reasonable exercise of the judgment of its Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience, determine that a student’s individual behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons and others in the educational community, the College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to deny entry to or dismiss such a student from any program which leads to certification. More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum, pre-practicum, student teaching or similar field experience, since the interests and safety of the children, and young people present in the classroom, schools and other venues where these practicum experiences take place are paramount.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Problematic behaviors, which the College of Education and Human Sciences reasonably determines renders the candidate a risk to the educational community or demonstrates a likelihood of illegal activity, may be established by any credible means, including the facts surrounding a record of arrests and/or convictions.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Similarly, behaviors which result in a finding by a court or other governmental body that the individual is:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a mentally ill and dangerous person;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">mentally incompetent to stand trial;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">acquitted of criminal charges because of insanity;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an incapacitated person;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a person in need of a guardian or conservator, or;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a person unable to manage his or her property due to mental illness, mental deficiency, or chronic use of drugs or chronic intoxication are the kind of behaviors which are likely to disqualify a candidate from participation in practicum experiences and other College of Education and Human Sciences programs.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Similar to the discussion concerning criminal convictions above, the consequences for unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will very likely be different in each case, due to the unique circumstances involved in each matter. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that safety in the classroom, the reputation of the College, and the best interest of the student, are all recognized and promoted.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Appeal to the Dean</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience with respect to a criminal behavior matter, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing within no greater than ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student’s written appeal shall clearly explain to the Dean the basis for the student’s appeal. The Dean will review the student’s basis for appeal, and is authorized, but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student’s written appeal. The Dean is authorized to collect such additional information as she or he deems necessary to review an investigation (including but not limited to the student’s educational records maintained by the College, other documentation, personal interviews and meetings with the student, College faculty, administration and staff, and others with relevant information). The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possibly, but in no case longer than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience or both, a written decision, which decision shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review within the University of Nebraska.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
