<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Sociology</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="sociology">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Sociology</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Arts &amp; Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Sociology</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREES OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Yes</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Lisa Kort-Butler</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Dan R. Hoyt,</span><span class="generated-style"> 711 Oldfather Hall</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Carranza, Deegan, Hoyt, Moore, Tyler, Whitbeck, Whitt</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Dance, McQuillan, Schwadel</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Ceballos, Cheadle, Falci, Goosby, Hagewen, Kazyak, Kort-Butler, Olson, Smyth</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students considering a major in sociology should consult with the chief adviser of the department before registering for their first classes. This is particularly important because the subjects that lay the foundation for later training in sociology, plus the courses for a minor, should be carefully selected.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">This department participates in the programs of Global Studies, Ethnic Studies, Environmental Studies, the Center for Great Plains Studies, and the Women’s and Gender Studies Program.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">One course in rural sociology, AECN 276, may count toward a major in sociology. Students in the College of Agriculture who have taken AECN 276 may substitute the course for SOCI 101 if they plan to take other courses in the Department of Sociology.</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span><span class="generated-style"> The advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy are offered. For details of these programs, see the </span><span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span><span class="generated-style"> and the departmental bulletin, Sociology Graduate Program Guidelines, available at 711 Oldfather Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">30 hours, including SOCI 101, SOCI 205, SOCI 206, SOCI 355, and a significant research experience. </span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The research experience requirement may be met in any of the following ways: 1) SOCI 399H; 2) SOCI 495; 3) SOCI 310A and SOCI 310B; or 4) SOCI 396. </span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span><span class="generated-style"> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required to complete an exit survey during the course of the senior seminar. The instructor will inform the students of the scheduling and format of the survey.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Results of participation in these assessment activities will not affect a student’s GPA or graduation in any way.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students majoring in sociology may not take courses in the major for Pass/No Pass credit with the possible exceptions of independent study, 3 credit hours of field work in sociology, and hours in excess of those required for the major. Request forms are available in the Arts and Sciences Advising Center, 107 Oldfather Hall.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Course Level Requirement</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">At least 12 hours must be taken at the 300 or 400 level.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Extended Education, Independent Study Rules, Internship Credit Rules</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">No more than 6 hours total from internship and independent study courses, SOCI 397 and SOCI 399, may be counted toward the major requirements in sociology. </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style"> 18 hours including SOCI 101. No more than 3 hours total from internship and independent study courses, SOCI 397 and/or independent study SOCI 399 may count toward the minor requirements in sociology.</span></li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
