<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Speech-Language Pathology</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="speech-language-pathology">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Speech-Language Pathology</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Education &amp; Human Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span><span class="generated-style"> Speech-Language Pathology</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span><span class="generated-style"> 2.5 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Jim Cotter</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition to this pre-professional program, students must also complete a masters degree in speech-language pathology before they can obtain their licensure and/or certification. Upon completion of the speech-language pathology endorsement, a person may serve as a speech-language pathologist and/or resource person.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">General Information </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College offers undergraduate programs leading to a bachelor of science in education and human sciences degree in more than 40 different teaching endorsements. Some students in other UNL colleges choose to seek certification, completing a degree in their home college while meeting all requirements for teacher certification in the College of Education and Human Sciences.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Early field placement in public and private schools is a nationally recognized hallmark of the teacher education program in the College of Education and Human Sciences. While internships are a valuable enhancement to many students’ education, in the College of Education and Human Sciences, practicum experiences and student teaching are a critical and essential part of the curriculum and these must be successfully completed in order to be certified in the teaching profession. A student’s inability to complete these field experiences, for any reason, may adversely impact the candidate’s ability to gain admission into the College or maintain enrollment in a teacher preparation program. Students unlikely or unable to complete the field experience may be counseled to seek other opportunities where success is more attainable. (See “Felony and Misdemeanor Conviction” and “Professional and Ethical Behavior” under the OTHER heading for additional information with respect to behaviors impacting field experience participation.)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Teacher education endorsements (or majors) are divided into field endorsements or single-subject endorsements. Field endorsements certify the candidate to teach a broader range of courses compared to single-subject endorsements, which certify the candidate to teach in one subject area only. Consequently, a teacher holding a field endorsement is typically more marketable than a teacher holding a single-subject endorsement. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Candidates may also elect to complete requirements for supplemental endorsements; these are additional endorsements that can be added to a field or single-subject endorsement but cannot be taken alone. Supplemental endorsements require additional credit hours beyond those needed for the first endorsement (field or single-subject). Teachers may increase their marketability by adding supplemental endorsements. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students may also choose to complete requirements for two endorsements simultaneously. Completing a second endorsement will require additional credit hours beyond those required for the first endorsement. Often the completion of two endorsements requires more than 120 credit hours of course work and may require additional semesters of course work. Students may contact the College Student Services Center, 105 Henzlik Hall, or their adviser, for assistance in deciding whether to complete: field or single-subject endorsements, one or more supplemental endorsements, or multiple endorsements.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Degree at a Glance </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> Hours</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">ACE Requirements 31-34</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 1. 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 2. COMM 109 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> COMM 209 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> COMM 210 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ALEC 102 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-Professional Education Requirement)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 3. STAT 218 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> EDPS 459 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Professional SLPA Requirement)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3-5 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 4. Any PHYS </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> CHEM course 4-5 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 5. 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 6. EDPS 250 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> EDPS 251 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> CYAF 160 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-Professional Education Requirement)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 7. 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 8. 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 9. TEAC 330 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-Professional Education Requirement)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">ACE 10. SLPA 421 </span><span class="requirement-ital">(Professional SLPA Requirement)</span><span class="generated-style"> 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Professional Education Requirements 9</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">*EDPS 362 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 259 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">*TEAC 331 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> TEAC 430 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> TEAC 431 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> TEAC 434 </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> TEAC 437 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Speech-Language Pathology Pre-Professional Requirements 16-17 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 150 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 250 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 251 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 271 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">*BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 214 4-5 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Speech-Language Pathology Professional Requirements 35</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 397A 1</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 441 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 452 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 454 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 455 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 456 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 461 &amp; SLPA 461L 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 464 4 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 472 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">*SLPA 488 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">SPED 400 3 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Electives 25-29</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Hours 120</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk"><span class="generated-style">* These courses are also approved ACE courses and together with the 30 hours of ACE Required Courses meet the additional ACE/General Education requirements for secondary education students.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">ACE Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission to the College of Education and Human Sciences does not guarantee admission into a teacher education program. Although a student initially takes four pre-professional SLPA courses, the Speech-Language Pathology program has competitive admission requirements into the advanced professional phases of the program. Students must apply by September 15th for a spring admission or by February 1st for a fall admission and must satisfy the following requirements in order to be eligible to apply to the program:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Must have earned a minimum of 42 credit hours of college credit with a minimum 3.2 cumulative GPA.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Completion of the pre-professional SLPA classes (SLPA 150, SLPA 250, SLPA 251, and SLPA 271) by the end of the semester in which you apply and with a minimum average 3.2 GPA.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Completion of BIOS 213 and 213L or BIOS 214. </span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Completion of TEAC 331, COMM 109, and EDPS 250 or 251 or approved substitutes with no grade lower than a C.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">5. Documentation of proficiency in reading, writing, and mathematics through successful completion of the Praxis I, Pre-Professional Skills Test (PPST), a basic skills examination that meets the Nebraska Department of Education competency requirement.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">6. Completion of a formal criminal history review.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR/PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Professional SLPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent"><span class="generated-style">Complete the following course work by the end of the semester in which you apply to the Professional Program. A minimum GPA of 3.2 in the four pre-professional SLPA courses and a cumulative GPA of 3.2 or higher is necessary to apply to the program. All grades must be C or above.</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 150 Communication Processes &amp; Disorders </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 250 Descriptive Phonetics &amp; Normal Speech Development </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 251 Normal Language Development </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 271 Intro to Audiology </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L Human Physiology &amp; Lab </span><span class="requirement-ital">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 214 Human Anatomy</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Pre-Professional Education Requirements </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">EDPS 250 or EDPS 251 or CYAF 160 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 210, or ALEC 102 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 331, TEAC 430, TEAC 431, TEAC 434, TEAC 437, or TEAC 496 </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">TEAC 259 and EDPS 362 </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Professional SLPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">EDPS 459 Statistical Methods </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> STAT 218 Intro to Statistics </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 397A Introduction &amp; Observation</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 421 Professional Issues for the Communication Disorders Specialist </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 441 Methods for the Communication Disorders Specialist </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 452 Normal Language Development During School Years </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 454 Research Methodology in Speech-Language Pathology &amp; Audiology </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 455 Anatomy &amp; Physiology of the Speech &amp; Hearing Mechanisms</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 456 Speech &amp; Hearing Science</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 461 &amp; SLPA 461L Language Disorders: Preschool Level &amp; Lab</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 464 Phonological Disorders</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 472 Intro to Aural Rehabilitation </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SLPA 488 Linguistic Needs of Bilingual &amp; Culturally Different Students </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">SPED 400 Characteristics of Exceptional Persons</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Requirements in Education Programs</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Requirements for completion of an undergraduate degree in a teacher preparation program include a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.5. Students seeking certification must also have a 2.5 GPA in their endorsement and education courses with no grade lower than a C in their pre-professional courses and no grade lower than a C+ in their professional education courses. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Transfer Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Up to 9 hours of transfer credit with grades below C may be applied to the General Education requirements and elective classes in programs leading to the undergraduate degree in teacher preparation. Transfer grades of C- and D may not be used in the major/endorsement area courses or in the professional courses in teacher preparation programs.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Grade Option–for Education Students</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">A student enrolled at the University may, in certain instances, take a grading option of Pass/No Pass (P/N) for a specific course. A grade of pass represents satisfactory completion of a course with a grade of C or better. Credits earned under the pass grade option count toward graduation, but no grade points are tabulated in the cumulative grade point average. Likewise, a grade of no pass is not tabulated in the grade point average. The following rules apply to students who are enrolled in teacher preparation programs who choose the Pass/No Pass option:</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Only one course in each subject endorsement may be taken P/N; two courses in a field endorsement may be taken P/N.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Pre-professional and professional education classes may not be taken P/N unless a class already has a P/N designation.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">3. Any course in the general education requirements unless otherwise stipulated by the department of the course may be taken P/N.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">4. Total P/N credits may not exceed 12 credit hours. This limit does not include courses offered on a P/N only basis.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Beyond Classroom Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In all fields of study, students are expected to attain certain grades and other academic accomplishments in the classroom. In addition to this, students preparing themselves to be teachers, counselors and for other careers in education, are also reviewed to evaluate their ability to successfully and safely interact with children, parents, potential educational employers, and the community-at-large, whose interest in the education of its children often exceeds its concern for other community and governmental services.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Education Employment Services</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Career Services Center, 230 Nebraska Union, offers a professional placement service to students and alumni who are seeking employment in education and related fields. In addition to providing on-campus interviews with select schools throughout the year, this office sponsors an annual Education Recruitment Day in the spring, which offers students an opportunity to interview with hiring officials from many schools.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Felony and Misdemeanor Convictions</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Today’s reality demands that the College, along with the public and private schools that facilitate field experience, are all keenly attuned to the safety of the educational community, and particularly children in the classroom, who interact with those placed as student teachers and in other practicum experiences. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Nebraska Department of Education policy requires that a person with any felony conviction or a misdemeanor conviction involving abuse, neglect, or sexual misconduct shall not be allowed to participate in pre-student teaching laboratory and classroom experiences or student teach without approval of the State Board of Education. To comply with this policy, the College of Education and Human Sciences will require each student to affirm under oath that he/she does not have any convictions in the above-named areas prior to each field experience.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">To ensure that each individual complies with this policy, all students who are pursuing a teaching certificate will be required to periodically complete a “Personal and Professional Fitness” form (PPF) as well as submit to two formal reviews of their criminal history, which is conducted by an independent third party. The first review will be completed during the first semester of the individual’s freshman year or upon the individual’s transfer into the College of Education and Human Sciences. At that time, each student will complete the PPF form and will also be expected to submit a request for the review of their criminal history. The PPF form will again be completed and submitted as a part of the application process for the Teacher Education Program. The final review, including the submission of the PPF form and the completion of a second criminal history check, will take place as part of the student teaching application process. Each student is responsible for the cost of the two criminal history reviews. </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">If a student does have any felony or any misdemeanor convictions, he/she is required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Field Experience as soon as possible, in order to receive counseling with respect to the impact of the conviction on the student’s future in the College, the State Board of Education approval and, more broadly, on the student’s ability to find success in the profession of education. The College of Education and Human Sciences aims to train and graduate teachers of the highest caliber possible, and therefore, the standards the College sets for its students may be more stringent than the rules the Department of Education sets for field experience. A student should not assume that merely because the State Board of Education would approve placement in the field, that the College is willing to make such a placement, or that a participating partner school is willing to accept the student’s placement into it midst.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The consequences of one conviction compared to another may vary significantly, depending upon the facts underlying the convictions. Those facts are determined by the College. In some instances, the behavior associated with the conviction may be so egregious as to render placement in a field experience virtually impossible. In such instances, termination or long-term suspension from a teaching program may be appropriate. In other instances, a responsible passage of time without further criminal incident may indicate that the student has matured and is ready to reconvene his or her education. Consequences will very likely be different from case to case, as each of these difficult matters is unique. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that the safety of children in the classroom, the best interest of the student, and the reputation of the College, are all recognized and promoted. Failure to honestly disclose a conviction may be cause for disciplinary action separate from the conviction itself. Students willing to honestly address the challenges that arise from the past mistakes are more likely to reach a favorable outcome, than those who further jeopardize their integrity with a lie. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In additional to criminal convictions, other non-criminal behaviors which: involve risks that are unacceptable for future teachers and the children charged to their care; demonstrate a lack of professionalism and good judgment; and evidence a disregard for one’s personal reputation, the integrity of the College and the teaching profession, may bring into question a student’s ability to be successful in an education career. Before engaging in such questionable behavior, students must consider how the College, the profession, educational employer, parents of school-aged children, and the community which is the State of Nebraska, would perceive or evaluate the impact of that behavior with respect to the students’ ability to serve children. To be allowed to teach is a great honor and a great responsibility. Teaching is a profession that requires its potential candidates to be individuals of the highest integrity. Prospective teachers must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and for their students. They serve as important role models and mentors for children during very impressionable years. Teachers are responsible for the education, safety and well-being for anyone in their charge. Indeed, teachers hold the future of all in their care. Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences is most interested in training future teachers who show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act responsibly. These individuals must be able to serve as representatives of our College and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Should the College, through the reasonable exercise of the judgment of its Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience, determine that a student’s individual behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons and others in the educational community, the College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to deny entry to or dismiss such a student from any program which leads to certification. More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum, pre-practicum, student teaching or similar field experience, since the interests and safety of the children, and young people present in the classroom, schools and other venues where these practicum experiences take place are paramount.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Problematic behaviors, which the College of Education and Human Sciences reasonably determines renders the candidate a risk to the educational community or demonstrates a likelihood of illegal activity, may be established by any credible means, including the facts surrounding a record of arrests and/or convictions.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Similarly, behaviors which result in a finding by a court or other governmental body that the individual is:</span></p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a mentally ill and dangerous person;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">mentally incompetent to stand trial;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">acquitted of criminal charges because of insanity;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">an incapacitated person;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a person in need of a guardian or conservator, or;</span></li>
					<li class="bullet-1"><span class="generated-style">a person unable to manage his or her property due to mental illness, mental deficiency, or chronic use of drugs or chronic intoxication are the kind of behaviors which are likely to disqualify a candidate from participation in practicum experiences and other College of Education and Human Sciences programs.</span></li>
				</ul>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Similar to the discussion concerning criminal convictions above, the consequences for unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will very likely be different in each case, due to the unique circumstances involved in each matter. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students’ fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that safety in the classroom, the reputation of the College, and the best interest of the student, are all recognized and promoted.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Appeal to the Dean</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience with respect to a criminal behavior matter, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing within no greater than ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student’s written appeal shall clearly explain to the Dean the basis for the student’s appeal. The Dean will review the student’s basis for appeal, and is authorized, but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student’s written appeal. The Dean is authorized to collect such additional information as she or he deems necessary to review an investigation (including but not limited to the student’s educational records maintained by the College, other documentation, personal interviews and meetings with the student, College faculty, administration and staff, and others with relevant information). The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possibly, but in no case longer than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Field Experience or both, a written decision, which decision shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review within the University of Nebraska.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
