<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Supply Chain Management</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="supply-chain-management">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Supply Chain Management</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span><span class="generated-style"> Supply Chain Management</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 hours for degree (33 hours for the major) </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span><span class="generated-style">2.5 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> David Olson</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: David L. Olson</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Nah, Savory, Schniederjans, Siau</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span><span class="generated-style"> Swenseth, Trimi</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span><span class="generated-style"> Batur </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The College of Business Administration at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln has established an undergraduate supply chain management major to educate students to become supply chain management professionals. Supply chain management (SCM) includes all the activities that must take place to get the right products and services into the right customer’s hands in the right quantity at the right time—from raw material extraction to consumer purchase.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The topics that SCM covers are diverse and include: procurement, order fulfillment, inventory management, supplier relationship management, product development and commercialization, returns management, physical distribution and shipping, warehousing, and outsourcing. With the depth and breadth of issues that it encompasses, industries that use SCM tools and approaches include: transportation, hospitals, government organizations, construction, processing, social services, electronics, facility design, manufacturing, and warehousing.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The course work for the supply chain management major (bachelor of science in business administration) consists of 120 credit hours, 33 of which are specific to the major. A focus of the course work is developing the three foundational areas of supply chain management: procurement, logistics, and operations. The program offers integration among these critical, value-adding components to enhance global competitiveness. Twenty-one hours of required course work is intended to provide students with an understanding of supply chain and logistic activities, development of strong quantitative and analytic skills, and introduction to tools to explore and improve a system. Students will complete an additional 12 hours of course work from directed electives in supporting fields such as accounting, finance, management information systems, leadership and/or marketing.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Admission requirements for all majors in the College are the same as those for University Admission as noted under UNL General Admission Requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 33 hours of course work for the major.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All students, regardless of their major or interests in the College will take SCMS 331/MNGT 331 and SCMS 350/MNGT 350/MIST 350 as part of the Business Core Foundation requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">NONE of these courses may be used to count toward the major.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">As noted in the College Degree Requirements section, all course work for the major must be taken for a grade.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Business Core Advanced–Major (BCA-M)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All course work for the major must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass).</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">The requirements for the major in addition to the general College requirements, consists of 21 hours of required major courses as listed:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">SCMS 335 Supply Chain Decision Making Models</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 346/SCMS 346 Distribution Channels Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 431/SCMS 431 Enterprise Management Systems</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">SCMS 432 Supply Chain Planning &amp; Control Systems</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 444/SCMS 444 Supply Chain Logistics</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">SCMS 439 Global Sourcing &amp; Distribution</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">SCMS 474 Strategic Supply Chain Management</span></p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="generated-style">As well as 12 hours from the following directed electives:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">ACCT 308 Managerial Accounting</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MNGT 311 Leadership, Communications, &amp; Teams</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 345 Marketing Research</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">FINA 375 Financial Statement Analysis</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 425 Retail Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MNGT/SCMS 437 Supply Chain Risk Management</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MRKT 450 Strategic Database Marketing</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MIST/SCMS 454 Information Systems Analysis &amp; Design</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MIST/SCMS 456 Object-oriented Systems Development</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MIST/SCMS 458 Electronic Business</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="generated-style">MIST/SCMS 459 Global Information Technology &amp; IS</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">C- and D Grades</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College Grade rules.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Pass/No Pass Limits</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College Pass/No Pass limits.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">GPA Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Same as College GPA requirements.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">OTHER</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Supply Chain Management Major </span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All course work for the major must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass).</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
