<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Textile Science</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="textile-science">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name">Textile Science</p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEPARTMENT:</span> Textiles, Merchandising &amp; Fashion Design</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span> Textile Science</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 </p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Judy Hofeldt </p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The textile science option emphasizes textiles and biofibers, textile production, and issues concerning the global textile industry. Professional support in related sciences and business is required. The program is planned for students interested in sales, research, or management in the textile industry. It is also recommended for students who plan to go on to graduate school in either textiles or related sciences. <span class="basic-text-bold">Students are eligible to receive a minor in chemistry from the UNL College of Arts and Sciences..</span></p>
				<p class="title-1">Degree at a Glance</p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Requirements 32-33</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 1. 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 2. TMFD 141A &amp; TMFD 141B <span class="requirement-ital">(Introductory Courses)</span> 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 3. STAT 218 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> EDPS 459 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 4. CHEM 109 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 113 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 5. TMFD 408 <span class="requirement-ital">(Common Completion Course)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 6. PSYC 181 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> SOCI 101 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3-4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 7. AHIS 101 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Course)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 8. ECON 211 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Course)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 9. TMFD 123 <span class="requirement-ital">(Introductory Course)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 10. TMFD 412 <span class="requirement-ital">(Common Completion Course)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Introductory &amp; Common Completion Courses 19</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 206, TMFD 212, TMFD 213 (3 hrs ea) 9</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 143 2</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 405 &amp; TMFD 422 6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 498 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> TMFD 492 2</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Supporting Courses 29-34</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">AHIS 102 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CHEM 110 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 114 3-4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CHEM 116 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 221 2-4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CHEM 251 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 261 and CHEM 252 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 262 (3 hrs ea) 6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">CHEM 253 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 263 and CHEM 254 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 264 (1 hr ea) 2</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ECON 212 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">LIBR 110 1</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">MATH 101 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MATH 104 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MATH 106 3-5</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 6 hrs from any of the following areas:</span> 6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"> ACCT, BLAW, CHEM, CSCE, ECON, ENTR, FINA, MATH, MIST, MNGT, MRKT, PHYS</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Professional Textile Courses 15</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 406, TMFD 428, TMFD 499 (3 hrs ea) 9</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 6 hrs from the following:</span> 6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-4">TMFD 140A, TMFD 140B, TMFD 216, TMFD 225, TMFD 313, TMFD 325, TMFD 407, TMFD 492, TMFD 498</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Electives 19-25</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 120</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR/PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1">ACE Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
				<p class="asterisk">* These courses required in your major, will also meet ACE Requirements.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Introductory and Common Completion Courses</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*TMFD 123 Clothing &amp; Human Behavior</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*TMFD 141A Visual Literacy Lab: Color</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*TMFD 141B Visual Literacy Lab: Speculative Drawing</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 143 Visual Literacy: Art &amp; Design</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 206 Textiles</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 212 Product Development I: Apparel Analysis &amp; Development</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 213 Merchandising I: Textile &amp; Apparel Industry</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 405 Advanced Textiles</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 408 History of Textiles</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 422 International Textile &amp; Apparel Sourcing</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*TMFD 412 Product Development III: Trend Analysis &amp; Product Conceptualization</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 498 Internship <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> TMFD 492 Professional Study Tour–International or Domestic <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> both</p>
				<p class="title-2">Supporting Courses</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*AHIS 101 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism I</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*AHIS 102 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism II</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*CHEM 109 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> *CHEM 113</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 110 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 114</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 116 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 221</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 251 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 261</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 252 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 262</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 253 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 263</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 254 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 264</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*ECON 211 &amp; *ECON 212 &amp; either *PSYC 181 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> *SOCI 101</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 101 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> *MATH 104 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> *MATH 106</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">LIBR 110 </p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*STAT 218 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> EDPS 459</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 6 hrs from any of the following areas:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACCT, BLAW, CHEM, CSCE, ECON, ENTR, FINA, MATH, MIST, MNGT, MRKT, PHYS</p>
				<p class="title-2">Professional Textile Courses</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 406 Textile Testing &amp; Evaluation</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 428 Coloration</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 499 Undergraduate Research</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 6 hours from the following:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 140A, TMFD 140B, TMFD 216, TMFD 225, TMFD 313, TMFD 325, TMFD 407, TMFD 492, TMFD 498</p>
				<p class="title-1">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text-no-indent">Students may receive an Emphasis in Hospitality, Restaurant and Tourism Management or Business Minor by taking the following: </p>
				<p class="title-2">Optional Hospitality, Restaurant and Tourism Management Emphasis (15 hours)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HRTM 171 Intro to Hospitality, Restaurant, and Tourism Management</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HRTM 285 Intro to the Lodging Industry</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">HRTM 289 Intro to the Event Industry</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 6 hours from:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">HRTM 280, HRTM 373, HRTM 374, HRTM 489, HRTM 474, HRTM 478, HRTM 479</p>
				<p class="title-2">Optional Business Minor (18 hours)</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 200 Economic Essentials &amp; Issues</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACCT 200 Accounting for Business Decisions</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">BLAW 300 Business, Government &amp; Society</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MRKT 300 Contemporary Marketing</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MNGT 300 Management Essentials for Contemporary Organizations</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">FINA 300 Financial Decision Making</p>
				<p class="title-1">Minor Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Minors may also be taken in Global Studies or in Women’s and Gender Studies. The student should see their adviser for more information.</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph">Please note the following department specific requirements:</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">1. No required course work in the textiles, clothing and design department can be taken Pass/No Pass by textiles, clothing and design majors. Should a student have earned a P in one of the courses prior to starting the option, the P will be reviewed.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">2. Substitution and waiver forms must be processed prior to the semester of graduation and must be processed prior to enrolling in the substituted course. All course prerequisites must be met prior to enrollment.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">3. All students are required to participate in either an internship or study tour experience, or both, during their program. Internships are qualified by a minimum GPA requirement. Textiles, clothing and design majors have the opportunity to study abroad at institutions such as the American Intercontinental University in London, for both the summer and semester education abroad programs.</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
