<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Textiles_Merchandising &amp; Fashion Design_Communications</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="textiles-merchandising-fashion-design-communications">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name">Textiles, Merchandising &amp; Fashion Design/Communications</p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEPARTMENT:</span> Textiles, Merchandising &amp; Fashion Design</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM: </span>Textiles, Merchandising &amp; Fashion Design/Communications</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 </p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Judy Hofeldt</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
				<p class="basic-text">This specialization is a joint program between the Department of Textiles, Merchandising and Fashion Design and the College of Journalism and Mass Communications. The student combines a background in textiles including course work in textile science, textile and apparel design and merchandising, with the advertising area of journalism.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Degree at a Glance</p>
				<p class="requirement-hours"> Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Requirements 32-33</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 1. ADPR 283 <span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Course)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 2. TMFD 140A &amp; TMFD 140B <span class="requirement-ital">(Introductory Courses)</span> 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 3. STAT 218 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> EDPS 459 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 4. CHEM 105 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 109 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 113 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 5. TMFD 408 <span class="requirement-ital">(Common Completion Course)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 6. PSYC 181 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> SOCI 101 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3-4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 7. AHIS 101 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Course)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 8. ECON 211 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ECON 212 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 9. TMFD 123 <span class="requirement-ital">(Introductory Course)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ACE 10. TMFD 412 <span class="requirement-ital">(Common Completion Course)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Introductory &amp; Common Completion Courses 19</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 206, TMFD 212, TMFD 213, TMFD 405, TMFD 422 (3 hrs ea) 15</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 143 2</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 498 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> TMFD 492 2</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Supporting Courses 7-9</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">AHIS 102 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">LIBR 110 1</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">MATH 101 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MATH 104 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MATH 106 3-5</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Professional TCD/Communications Courses 50</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">TMFD 312, TMFD 314, TMFD 407 (3 hrs ea) 9</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select 6 hrs from the following:</span> 6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-4">TMFD 216, TMFD 225, TMFD 313, TMFD 325, TMFD 406, TMFD 428, TMFD 492, TMFD 498</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">ADPR 251 &amp; ADPR 489 6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">JOMC 101, JOMC 486, JOMC 487 (3 hrs ea) 9</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr">JOMC 162, JOMC 163, JOMC 164, JOMC 165 (2 hrs ea) 8</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="requirement-ital">Select any 12 hours from journalism courses</span> 12</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Electives 9-12</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 120</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR/PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1">ACE Requirements</p>
				<p class="basic-text">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
				<p class="asterisk">* These courses required in your major, will also meet ACE Requirements.</p>
				<p class="title-1">Introductory &amp; Common Completion Courses</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*TMFD 123 Clothing &amp; Human Behavior</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*TMFD 140A Visual Literacy Lab: Analysis &amp;/or Composition</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*TMFD 140B Visual Literacy Lab: Perceptual Drawing</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 143 Visual Literacy: Art &amp; Design</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 206 Textiles</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 212 Product Development I: Apparel Analysis &amp; Development</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 213 Merchandising I: Textile &amp; Apparel Industry</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 405 Advanced Textiles</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 408 History of Textiles</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*TMFD 412 Product Development III: Trend Analysis &amp; Product Conceptualization</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 422 International Textile &amp; Apparel Sourcing</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 498 Internship <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> TMFD 492 Professional Study Tour: International or Domestic <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> both</p>
				<p class="title-2">Supporting Courses</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*AHIS 101 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism I</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*AHIS 102 Intro to Art History &amp; Criticism II</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*CHEM 105 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> *CHEM 109 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> *CHEM 113</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*ECON 211 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> *ECON 212 and either *PSYC 181 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> *SOCI 101</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 101 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> *MATH 104 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> *MATH 106</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">LIBR 110</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">STAT 218 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> EDPS 459</p>
				<p class="title-2">Professional TMFD/Communications Courses</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*TMFD 312 Product Development II: Fashion Analysis &amp; Presentation</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*TMFD 314 Visual Merchandising</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">TMFD 407 History of Costume</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select two courses from the following:</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3">TMFD 216, TMFD 225, TMFD 313, TMFD 325, TMFD 406, TMFD 428, TMFD 492, TMFD 498 </p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ADPR 251 Principles of Strategic Communication</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">*ADPR 283 Writing for Strategic Communication</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ADPR 489 Advertising &amp; Public Relations Campaign</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JOMC 101 Principles of Mass Media</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JOMC 162 Visual &amp; Aural Literacy: Photography</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JOMC 163 Visual &amp; Aural Literacy: Videography</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JOMC 164 Visual &amp; Aural Literacy: Graphic Design</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JOMC 165 Visual &amp; Aural Literacy: Multimedia</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JOMC 486 Mass Media Law</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JOMC 487 Mass Media &amp; Society</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select any 12 hours from journalism courses.</span></p>
				<p class="title-3">Electives</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1">Prerequisite Requirements/Rules</p>
				<p class="basic-text">Please note the following department specific requirements:</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">1. No required course work in the textiles, clothing and design department can be taken Pass/No Pass by textiles, clothing and design majors. Should a student have earned a P in one of the courses prior to starting the option, the P will be reviewed.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">2. Substitution and waiver forms must be processed prior to the semester of graduation and must be processed prior to enrolling in the substituted course. All course prerequisites must be met prior to enrollment.</p>
				<p class="numbered-list">3. All students are required to participate in either an internship or study tour experience, or both, during their program. Internships are qualified by a minimum GPA requirement. Textiles, clothing and design majors have the opportunity to study abroad at institutions such as the American Intercontinental University in London, for both the summer and semester education abroad programs.</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
