<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Dietetics</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="dietetics">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name"><span class="generated-style">Dietetics</span></p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Education &amp; Human Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEPARTMENT:</span><span class="generated-style"> Nutrition &amp; Health Sciences </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">PROGRAM:</span><span class="generated-style"> Dietetics (Didactic Program in Dietetics) </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE:</span><span class="generated-style"> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span><span class="generated-style"> 120 </span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span><span class="generated-style"> 2.0 for graduation</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span><span class="generated-style"> No</span></p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span><span class="generated-style"> Judith Hofeldt </span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">DESCRIPTION</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Dietetics (Didactic Program in Dietetics) option is designed for students who wish to become registered dietitians and practitioners in clinical, community, food industry, and foodservice areas of nutrition. Registered dietitians are employed by hospitals, community agencies, and various government or private organizations. The University of Nebraska Didactic Program in Dietetics is currently granted accreditation status by the Commission on Accreditation for Dietetics Education of the American Dietetic Association, 120 South Riverside Plaza, Suite 2000, Chicago, IL 60606-6995, 312/899-0040, ext. 5400. Completion of degree requirements will result in the student being awarded a Verification Statement of Completion of the Didactic Program in Dietetics. Following completion of the Didactic Program in Dietetics, an accredited dietetic internship program is required before students are eligible to take the registration examination and obtain the Registered Dietitian (RD) credential.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Acceptance into an accredited dietetic internship program is competitive. Currently, there is a significant shortage of available internship positions for the number of students applying for acceptance into an internship program. Acceptance into an internship program cannot be guaranteed.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">All required accreditation information can be found at http://cehs.unl.edu/nhs/undergrad/dietetics.shtml.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADMISSION</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Application to the Didactic Program in Dietetics (DPD)</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Following successful completion (a grade of C or above must be earned in all NUTR courses) of prerequisite courses*, application is necessary for entrance into the Didactic Program in Dietetics (DPD) which consists primarily of nutrition course work at the 300 and 400 level.</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Program Acceptance Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-ital">(See adviser in Student Advising Center and/or DPD Student Handbook for complete details.)</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">1. Application must be submitted by February 15 prior to the fall semester of desired acceptance.</span></p>
				<p class="numbered-list"><span class="generated-style">2. Admission requirements for acceptance into the Didactic Program in Dietetics include a cumulative grade point average of 3.0 or above and completion of 48 or more credit hours which must include the following prerequisite courses (courses can be in progress): </span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I &amp; CHEM 110 General Chemistry II</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 102 Cell Structure &amp; Function </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 103 Organismic Biology</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 100 Nutrition, Exercise &amp; Health</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 150 Foundation in Nutrition &amp; Health Promotion</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 244 &amp; NUTR 245 Scientific Principles of Food Preparation &amp; Lab</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 250 Human Nutrition &amp; Metabolism</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 251 Nutrition Through the Life Cycle</span></p>
				<p class="list-indent"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 253 Cultural Aspects of Food &amp; Nutrition</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Verification Statement of Meeting Didactic Program in Dietetics Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Department of Nutrition and Health Sciences will provide a Verification Statement of a student meeting Didactic Program in Dietetics (DPD) requirements based on the program in effect in the Undergraduate Bulletin the student is using for graduation requirements if the student is continuously enrolled and graduates within five years. If the student cannot finish their studies within this five-year time period, they must comply with the didactic program reflected in the Undergraduate Bulletin currently in effect. The Department of Nutrition and Health Sciences will not accept course work to meet prerequisite courses for DPD program admission or DPD requirements from any university or college outside the University of Nebraska system in which a grade of D-, D, or D+ was earned.</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">In order to receive a Verification Statement of a student meeting Didactic Program in Dietetic requirements, a minimum of 15 credits from 300- or 400-level courses must be completed at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. Nine of the 15 credit hours must come from three of the following classes: NUTR 450 Medical Nutrition Therapy I, NUTR 452 and NUTR 452L Medical Nutrition Therapy II and Lab, NUTR 455 Advanced Nutrition, or NUTR 473 Organization and Administration of Foodservice.</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Core Requirements </span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">DPD Entrance Requirements (22 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I (4 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II (4 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L General Biology &amp; Lab </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 102 Cell Structure &amp; Function </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 103 Organismic Biology </span><span class="requirement-ital">(hours met in ACE)</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 100 Nutrition, Exercise &amp; Health (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 150 Foundations in Nutrition &amp; Health Promotion (1 hr)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 244 &amp; NUTR 245 Scientific Principles of Food Preparation &amp; Lab (4 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 250 Human Nutrition &amp; Metabolism (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 251 Nutrition Through the Life Cycle (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 253 Cultural Aspects of Food &amp; Nutrition </span><span class="requirement-ital">(hours met in ACE)</span><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Professional Requirements (51-55 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Nutrition and Health Sciences (32 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note"><span class="generated-style">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for NUTR courses.</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 344 Food &amp; Nutrition for Healthy Living (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 356 Nutrition Education in the Community (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 370 Food Production Management (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 371 Applied Food Production Lab (1 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 402 Facts &amp; Fiction in Fitness &amp; Food (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 450 Medical Nutrition Therapy I (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 452 Medical Nutrition Therapy II (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 452L Medical Nutrition Therapy II Lab (1 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 453 Nutrition &amp; Fitness Communication Strategies (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 455 Advanced Nutrition (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 470 Cost Control for Foodservice (2 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 473 Organization &amp; Administration of Foodservice (3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">NUTR 490 Professional Preparation for Careers in Dietetics (1 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Supporting Courses (4-7 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CEHS 200 Families, Schools, &amp; Communities </span><span class="list-ital">(hours met in ACE) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">EDPS 459 Statistical Methods </span><span class="requirement-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> STAT 218 Intro to Statistics </span><span class="list-ital">(hours met in ACE) </span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">PSYC 181 Intro to Psychology (4 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">MATH 101 College Algebra or higher, trigonometry or calculus </span><span class="list-ital">(MATH requirement waived if placed above MATH 101 on Math Placement Exam)</span><span class="generated-style"> (0-3 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Supporting Sciences (15-16 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 111 The Biology of Microoganisms </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOS 312 &amp; BIOS 314 Fundamentals of Microbiology &amp; Lab </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> NUTR 372 Food Safety &amp; Sanitation (3-4 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L Human Physiology &amp; Lab </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> ASCI 240 Anatomy &amp; Physiology of Domestic Animals (4 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I &amp; Lab (4 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="list"><span class="generated-style">BIOC 321 &amp; BIOC 321L Elements of Biochemistry &amp; Lab </span><span class="faculty-list-bold">or</span><span class="generated-style"> BIOC 431 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism (4 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="title-3"><span class="generated-style">Electives (11-16 hrs)</span></p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1"><span class="generated-style">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</span></p>
				<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Grades Earned at UNL, UNO, UNK</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Grades of D-, D, D+, C- satisfy requirements of the programs in human sciences unless specified otherwise under the Programs and Departments section of the bulletin. Students who receive a grade of D-, D, D+, or C-, however, are encouraged to retake the course, particularly if it is in the major area.</span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Grades Earned Outside UN System</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Up to 9 hours of grades below C (C-, D+, D, D-) from other academic institutions can only be applied to general education requirements and elective classes. </span></p>
				<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Policy for Pass/No Pass Courses</span></p>
				<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The Pass/No Pass (P/N) option is designed for students who want to study elective areas or topics when they may have minimum preparation. If used for this purpose, the option can enrich the student’s academic experience without lowering the student’s grade point average. Free electives may be taken P/N. Students can earn no more than 12 hours of pass credit excluding courses offered on Pass/No Pass only basis. Not all classes can be taken under the Pass/No Pass option. All courses, specified by course and number, must be taken for a grade. Should a student have earned a P in one of the courses prior to starting the option, the P will be reviewed by the appropriate department.</span></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
