<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Industrial_Management_Systems_Engr</title>
		<link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body>
		<div id="industrial-management-systems-engr">
			<div class="story">
				<p class="major-name">Industrial &amp; Management Systems Engineering</p>
			</div>
			<div class="story">
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Industrial &amp; Management Systems Engineering</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 131</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA: </span>2.0 for graduation</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
				<p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Robert Williams</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Jeffrey C. Woldstad</span></p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Chair:</span> Robert E. Williams</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Ballard, Bishu, Choobineh, Cochran, Hallbeck, Hoffman, Rajurkar, Riley, Woldstad</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Jones, Savory, Williams</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span> Ko</p>
				<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturer:</span> Batur</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The department offers a curriculum leading to the degree of bachelor of science in industrial engineering, designed to help prepare the student for a wide range of employment positions or further study. Industrial engineering involves the science and practice of designing and managing complex integrated systems. Industrial engineering education provides students with the background to participate in such activities as manufacturing engineering, ergonomics, production planning and control, economic analysis, statistical analysis, quality control, manpower planning, facilities design, packaging, robotics, computer simulation, work place design and analysis, inventory control and optimization.</p>
				<p class="title-2">Mission and Objectives</p>
				<p class="basic-text">The mission of the department is to educate engineers, conduct research, and disseminate information to benefit the citizens of Nebraska and the nation. It is our educational goal to graduate outstanding engineers thoroughly trained in mathematics, basic sciences, engineering sciences, communications, computing, humanities, social sciences, engineering design and industrial engineering fundamentals, so that the graduates can enter the professional practice of engineering and perform at an exemplary level. </p>
				<p class="header-paragraph">Our program educational objectives are: </p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">Design, develop, implement and/or improve integrated systems that involve people, materials, machines, information, technology, processes, equipment, and/or financial resources.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Serve as effective change agents in the organizations that employ them, based on strong interpersonal and teamwork skills, an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility, and a willingness to take the initiative. </li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Able to use modern computer software tools to solve engineering problems and effectively communicate results, solutions, and/or recommendations.</li>
					<li class="bullet-1">Obtain professional employment and/or admission to a graduate education program.</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>
				<p class="title-1">Major/Department Admission</p>
				<ul>
					<li class="bullet-1">4 units (or years) of college prep English </li>
					<li class="bullet-1">4 units of mathematics – algebra I, algebra II, geometry, pre-calculus, and trigonometry </li>
					<li class="bullet-1">3 units of social studies – 1 unit of American and/or world history and 1 unit of history, American government and/or geography </li>
					<li class="bullet-1">3 units of natural sciences – chemistry and physics, 1 unit must include laboratory </li>
					<li class="bullet-1">2 units of one foreign language</li>
				</ul>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
				<p class="title-1">Requirements for the Degree (Lincoln Campus)</p>
				<p class="requirement-hours">First Semester Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Can be substituted with CHEM 111 or CHEM 113.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 10 Freshman Engineering Seminar 0</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 50 Intro to Industrial Engineering 0</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 106 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus I 5</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 130 Intro to CAD 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Electives 6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours">Second Semester Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 107 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus II 5</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Electives 6</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours">Third Semester Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGM 223 Engineering Statics 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 206 Engineering Economy I 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 275 Intro to Manufacturing Processes 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 208 Analytic Geometry &amp; Calculus III 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours">Fourth Semester Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">CSCE 155 Computer Science I 4</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Can be substituted with CSCE 150E (3 hr) and one of the following 1 hr courses: CSCE 251K or CSCE 252A.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ELEC 211 Elements of Electrical Engineering I 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ELEC 231 Electrical Engineering Lab 1</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 250 Intro to Industrial Systems 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 17</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours">Fifth Semester Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 305 Intro to Engineering Management 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 315 Intro to Ergonomics 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 321 Engr Statistics &amp; Data Analysis 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Engineering Science Elective 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Engineering science electives total 6 hours. A student can choose from MECH 200 or MECH 310, ENGM 325 or ENGM 373, or METL 260.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 elective courses.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours">Sixth Semester Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 328 Deterministic Operation Research Models 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 334 Production &amp; Operations Management 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 375 Manufacturing Engineering 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Information Systems Elective 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Information systems electives total 3 hours. A student can choose from any CSCE course (except CSCE 101), ELEC 121, MATH 340/840, or MNGT 350, MNGT 452, MNGT 454, MNGT 456, MNGT 457, or MNGT 458.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Engineering Science Elective 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Engineering science electives total 6 hours. A student can choose from MECH 200 or MECH 310, ENGM 325 or ENGM 373, or METL 260.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Communication Elective 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course from the ACE SLO two elective courses.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 18</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours">Seventh Semester Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 421 Applied Statistics &amp; Quality Control 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 428 Stochastic Operation Research Modeling 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 440 Discrete Event Simulation 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE Elective I (select from following list) 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE Elective II (select from following list) 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 15</span></p>
				<p class="requirement-hours">Eighth Semester Hours</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 400 Professional Ethics &amp; Social Responsibilities 1</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 434 Facility Planning &amp; Design 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 450 Senior Engineering Project 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE Elective I <span class="requirement-ital">(select from following list)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE Elective II <span class="requirement-ital">(select from following list)</span> 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2">Technical Elective * 3</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">Total 16</span></p>
				<p class="asterisk">* Three (3) credits of technical elective courses are to be selected by the student in conjunction with his/her adviser to formulate a coherent program in industrial engineering. A student can choose from any course in the IMSE Electives I and IMSE Electives II lists or a department-approved technical course at the sophomore level (200 level) or above from sciences, engineering, or mathematics.</p>
				<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Credit Hours Required 131</p>
				<p class="title-3">IMSE Electives I</p>
				<p class="list">IMSE 405 Analysis of Engineering Management</p>
				<p class="list">IMSE 406 Decision &amp; Risk Analysis</p>
				<p class="list">IMSE 412 Occupation Safety – A Systems Analysis</p>
				<p class="list">IMSE 415 Cognitive Ergonomics</p>
				<p class="list">IMSE 416 Physical Ergonomics</p>
				<p class="list">IMSE 417 Occupational Safety Hygiene Engineering</p>
				<p class="list">IMSE 422 Industrial Quality Control</p>
				<p class="list">IMSE 476 Manufacturing Information Systems</p>
				<p class="title-3">IMSE Electives II</p>
				<p class="list">IMSE 460 Packaging Engineering</p>
				<p class="list">IMSE 461 RFID Systems in the Supply Chain</p>
				<p class="list">IMSE 470 Theory &amp; Practice of Materials Processing</p>
				<p class="list">IMSE 471 Tool &amp; Die Design</p>
				<p class="list">IMSE 475 Manufacturing Systems I</p>
				<p class="list">IMSE 477 Robotics</p>
				<p class="list">IMSE 483 Logistics in the Supply Chain</p>
				<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>
				<p class="title-1">Laboratories</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Human Factors/Ergonomics Laboratory.</span> Equipment in this facility includes an environmental chamber, oxygen consumption equipment for measuring physical work capacities, force-sensing resistors for grip studies, hand and pinch dynamometers, bicycle ergometer, and electromyography equipment of assessing localized muscle fatigue. Work focuses on assessing risk factors for cumulative trauma disorders in the hand and wrists and on human-computer interaction studies to evaluate user menus and interface design for manufacturing.</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Innovative Design and Ergonomic Analysis (IDEA) Laboratory.</span> The IDEA Lab employs usercentered design principles to design products, such as surgical tools or homeland security devices, that are intuitive to learn, easy to use and maintain by involving the end-users in the design process. The IDEA Lab also evaluates these products or those designed by others, such as a reduced size piano keyboard or computer mice, using subjective, usability and objective ergonomic testing, often employing the end-user. To perform the objective ergonomic testing, the IDEA Lab has custom designed equipment to study the movement of multiple joints such as the wrist and hand or the hand and forearm, touch screens to examine aiming capabilities, devices for force or torque measurement, anthropometry electromyography and electrogoniometry and a mock laparoscopic surgical suite.</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Nontraditional Manufacturing Research Laboratory.</span> The laboratory is the only facility of its kind in the United States studying advanced manufacturing processes. Advanced manufacturing equipment is needed to machine materials such as ceramics, super alloys, composites and tool steels used by the aerospace, automotive, electronics, and medical components industries. The advanced machining processes studies include electrodischarge machining, electrochemical machining, laser machining, abrasive waterjet machining, abrasive flow machining and ultrasonic machining. Work focuses on improving these advanced processes, developing computer-controlled systems, improving the surface integrity achieved with these processes, designing machine tools and applying the new processes to production of new complex parts while considering economics, safety, and the environment.</p>
				<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">RFID and Supply Chain Logistics Laboratory.</span> The laboratory is equipped with radio frequency identification (RFID) readers, tags, antennas and software. Warehouse management software, conveyor systems, retrieval systems and RFID training simulator are included.</p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
