<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Agricultural Engineering 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="agricultural-engineering-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Agricultural Engineering</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Agricultural Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 133</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.4 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> </p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="title-2">Department of Biological Systems Engineering</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Head: Mark Riley</span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Dvorak, Eisenhauer, Hoy, Irmak, Jones, Koelsch, Kranz, Martin, Meyer, Shelton, Weller, Wolstad, Yang, Yoder</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Bashford, Franti, Kocher, Othman, Pannier, Stowell, Subbiah, Woldt</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Ge, Heeren, Keshwani, Liska, Luck, Melander, Munoz-Arriola, Pitla, Schmidt</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturers:</span> Heithold, Mabie</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website: </span>http://agen.unl.edu/</p>
<p class="basic-text">Agricultural engineering (AGEN) is one of two engineering degree programs offered in the Department of Biological Systems Engineering. AGEN students emphasize course work in one of three engineering areas; machine design, test, or soil and water resources. Thus, some agricultural engineers are involved in the analysis and design of field machinery systems and machine components through study of the principles of mechanical design, joining techniques, hydraulics, controls, ergonomics, and safety. Others are evaluating machine or mechanical system functional performance based on study of test procedure standards, measurements, data acquisition, electronic communication and statistics, and practical experience gained at the Nebraska Tractor Test Laboratory. Still others are analyzing and designing soil and water management-related infrastructure as aided through study of irrigation, drainage, erosion and runoff control techniques, crop tillage and cultivation practices and natural resources management. Job opportunities for graduates are available in industry, public agencies, consulting, and private practice.</p>
<p class="basic-text">By two to six years after graduation, AGEN graduates (whether they are involved in machine design, product and performance testing, soil and water resources, or other professional endeavors such as business or law) will be:</p>
<ul>
<li class="bullet-1">applying their unique educational backgrounds in agricultural engineering by providing appropriate solutions to problems and adding value to the research, development, and design processes encountered in a variety of work environments;</li>
<li class="bullet-1">considering systems as a whole when solving problems, looking beyond components and subsystems individually;</li>
<li class="bullet-1">confidently using the necessary elements of mathematics, statistics, physical science, engineering, computer-based measurement and analysis tools and current literature in solving problems and providing design solutions;</li>
<li class="bullet-1">successfully integrating their technical knowledge with organization, communication, and interpersonal skills, leading and working effectively in teams, and understanding cultural diversity and social and political forces that impact engineering decisions, as well as having the capability of competing in an international atmosphere;</li>
<li class="bullet-1">responsibly addressing issues of health and safety, ethics, and environmental impacts of engineering decisions; and</li>
<li class="bullet-1">continuing their personal growth, professional development, and professional and community service, through various opportunities provided by institutions, professional organizations and other venues.</li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">The Department of Biological Systems Engineering is located in Chase Hall on East Campus. AGEN students participate in classes and laboratories on both the East and City Campuses. AGEN courses are offered on the East Campus. Basic courses in math, chemistry, physics, engineering, computers, and electives in mechanical, civil, electrical, industrial, and chemical engineering are taken on the City Campus. Convenient bus transportation is available between campuses.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students benefit from small classes and personal acquaintances with faculty. In consultation with their advisor, students select electives that permit specialization in an emphasis area applicable to their career aspirations. Many students work part-time on departmental research projects, gaining valuable experience for graduate study and future employment. Students also benefit from summer jobs, internships and co-op programs. These opportunities give students practical experience to learn about careers in engineering. Students also gain valuable experience through participation in professional organizations such as the American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers, the Soil and Water Resources Club, the Nebraska Society of Professional Engineers and the Society for Women Engineers.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR DEPARTMENT ADMISSION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Pre-professionally admitted COE students majoring in agricultural engineering (AGEN)  have their records examined for advancement to professionally admitted status during the fall, spring, and summer immediately following the term in which 43 or more credits applicable to the AGEN degree have been completed. <span class="basic-text-bold">Students must be professionally admitted in order to enroll in AGEN </span>470<span class="basic-text-bold">/</span><span class="basic-text-bold">BSEN 470.</span></p>
<p class="basic-text">To be professionally admitted to AGEN, the student must first meet the general professional admission criteria of the College of Engineering (i.e., completion of at least one semester in the College, a cumulative GPA of 2.5 or greater, and not having been already declined admission by two other engineering majors). AGEN professional admission criteria requires consistent grades of C or better in calculus, calculus-based physics, chemistry, communications, and engineering science courses. Specifically, the student must have completed MECH 223 and AGEN 225/BSEN 225 with grades of a C or better to gain professional admission to AGEN. In addition, the student must complete the AGEN/BSEN Writing Assessment Exam (i.e., Grammar Slammer) before professional admission is granted.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who meet the above criteria with a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or greater with all grades above a C in UNL mathematics, science, engineering, and communications courses, and scoring 70 percent or higher on the AGEN/BSEN Writing Assessment Exam may be professionally admitted without further review by Department faculty. Students scoring less than 70 percent on the AGEN/BSEN Writing Assessment Exam must agree to a writing improvement plan with their academic advisor in order to be granted professional admission. Students not meeting the 3.0 GPA standard, or having grades below a C in the listed areas, will have their record reviewed by Department faculty for evidence of ability to succeed in AGEN. Under special circumstances, the Department may elect to defer professional admission for an additional term.</p>
<p class="basic-text basic-text-bold">The Department faculty may recommend provisional admission and specify deficiencies and performance criteria to transition out of provisional status. If a student has not met the admission criteria and has not, in the opinion of the Department faculty demonstrated a minimum standard of good professional judgment in the pursuit of their academic program as expected of degreed engineers, they may be denied professional admission to the degree program. The student may appeal this decision to the BSE Department Head and then, if necessary, to the College of Engineering Curriculum and Academic Standards Committee. </p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">First Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGEN 100 Introduction to Biological Systems Engineering &amp; Agricultural Engineering (BSEN 100) 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 10 Freshman Engineering Seminar 0</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 106 Calculus I 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Agricultural or Biological Sciences Elective 3-4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose from AGRO 131, or AGRO 153, or BIOS 101, or LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Second Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGEN 112 Computer-Aided Problem-Solving (BSEN 112) 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 107 Calculus II 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 130 Introduction to CAD 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 17</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Third Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGEN 225 Engineering Properties of Biological Materials (BSEN 225) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 208 Calculus III 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 223 Engineering Statics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MSYM 232 Equipment Principles 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 17</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fourth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGEN 212A Computational Tools &amp; Modeling for Agricultural &amp; Biological Systems Engineering: MATLAB (BSEN 212A) 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGEN 212B Computational Tools &amp; Modeling for Agricultural &amp; Biological Systems Engineering: Control Systems (BSEN 212B) 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGEN 212E Computational Tools &amp; Modeling for Agricultural &amp; Biological Systems Engineering: LabVIEW (BSEN 212E) 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 200 Engineering Thermodynamics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 325 Mechanics of Elastic Bodies 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 373 Engineering Dynamics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 18</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fifth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Choose from</span>:<span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AGEN 350 Soil &amp; Water Resources Engineering (BSEN 350)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AGEN 441 Animal Waste Management (BSEN 441)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AGEN 443 Design of Light-Frame Structures</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 206 Engineering Economics (CONE 206) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 310 <span class="requirement-bold"></span>  Fluid Mechanics (MECH 310) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ELEC 211 Elements of Electrical Engineering I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Emphasis Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 18</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Sixth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGEN 303 Principles of Process Engineering (BSEN 303) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGEN 325 Power Systems Design (BSEN 325) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGEN 344 Biological &amp; Environmental Transport Processes (BSEN 344) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 321 Engineering Statistics &amp; Data Analysis <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MATH 380 Statistics &amp; Applications (STAT 380) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Oral Communication Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose from: ALEC 102; COMM 209, COMM 210, COMM 283, or COMM 286; GERM 303; JAPN 202; JGEN 300; RUSS 304; SPAN 303</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Seventh Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGEN 424 Machine Design in Agricultural Engineering 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGEN 453 Irrigation &amp; Drainage Systems Engineering (BSEN 453) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGEN 460 Instrumentation &amp; Controls (BSEN 460) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGEN 470 Design I in Agricultural &amp; Biological Systems Engineering (BSEN 470) 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Emphasis Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Eighth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGEN 480 Design II in Agricultural &amp; Biological Systems Engineering (BSEN 480) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 400 Professional Ethics &amp; Social Responsibilities 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Electives 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Emphasis Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Organizational Skills Elective <span class="requirement-ital">(See advisor list)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Credit Hours Required 133</p>
<p class="title-1">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">An emphasis area requires 9 hours. The Soil and Water Resources emphasis requires AGEN 350, AGEN 441 or AGEN 453, or BSEN 455 or BSEN 458, plus 3 additional credits; the Machine Design emphasis requires MATH 314, MECH 342, and MECH 350; and the Test emphasis requires AGEN 431 and MSYM 433, and 3 additional credits.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>

<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">A grade of C- or better is required for all agricultural engineering required courses and electives that are to count toward graduation, with the exception of ACE 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 electives.</p>
<p class="title-2">Bulletin To Use</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to the “Bulletin Rule” of the College of Engineering, students transferring into the Department of Biological Systems Engineering must follow the bulletin in effect at the time of their transfer into the department.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>