<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Architectural Engineering (Omaha) 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="architectural-engineering-omaha-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Architectural Engineering (Omaha)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Architectural Engineering (Omaha)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 128</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.5 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Christine Warren</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="title-1">Durham School of Architectural Engineering and Construction</p>
<p class="faculty-list">School Director: James O'Hanlon</p>
<p class="faculty-list">Program Coordinator: Ece Erdogmus</p>
<p class="faculty-list">Professors: Foster, Goedert, Merkel, Wang, Waters</p>
<p class="faculty-list">Associate Professors: Alahmad, Erdogmus, Krause, Li, Morcous, Norton, Schwer, Tiller</p>
<p class="faculty-list">Assistant Professors: Lau, Pedersen, Ryherd, Yu, Yuill</p>
<p class="faculty-list">Assistant Professor of Practice:  Michelle Eble-Hankins</p>
<p class="faculty-list">HDR Industry Fellow of Structural Engineering:  Todd Feldman</p>
<p class="faculty-list">Website: http://engineering.unl.edu/durhamschool/architectural-engineering/</p>
<p class="basic-text">Architectural Engineering (AE) is a program of the Charles W. Durham School of Architectural Engineering and Construction. This degree program can only be completed on the Omaha campus. The AE undergraduate program is a four-year program requiring 128 credit hours. A one-year master of architectural engineering (MAE) program of 36 credits is also offered.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The educational objective of the program is to produce graduates who:</p>
<ul>
<li class="bullet-1">Practice architectural engineering as licensed professionals in the following areas of building design:
<ul>
<li class="bullet-2">building structural systems</li>
<li class="bullet-2">building mechanical systems</li>
<li class="bullet-2">building acoustics</li>
<li class="bullet-2">building lighting systems</li>
<li class="bullet-2">building electrical systems</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="bullet-1">Apply the fundamental principles of science, engineering, and mathematics to the analysis of architectural engineering problems</li>
<li class="bullet-1">Design solutions to architectural engineering problems under realistic condeitions that include:
<ul>
<li class="bullet-2">identifying relevant issues</li>
<li class="bullet-2">formulating solutions</li>
<li class="bullet-2">evaluating and selecting a solution</li>
<li class="bullet-2">communicating the final design</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">Architectural engineering (AE) is the engineering design of buildings. Students will have the option to specialize in either the design of building structural systems, building mechanical systems and acoustics or building lighting and electrical systems. The first three years are common to all three fields of specialization, and include the same math and science courses common to all engineering programs. Students will take an introductory course in AE in their first semester. This course exposes the students to the materials and systems that make up a modern building. It will also provide a preview of the work they can expect to do after graduation. This first AE course helps the student to decide if this is the career path he/she wishes to pursue.</p>
<p class="basic-text">In the second semester, the AE student begins the first of a four-course sequence of courses in architecture. The purpose of these courses is to familiarize the engineering student with the thought and design process of architects and to develop an appreciation of the architectural features of buildings. This exposure to architecture is an important part of the student’s education. It develops creativity and gives the AE graduates a unique ability to work effectively with their professional colleagues in architecture.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The intent of the AE program is to develop both breadth and depth. This is done by requiring the students to have a good understanding of all the systems that make up a building while also giving them a specialized education in their chosen option areas. The breadth is provided in the 5th and 6th semesters, with all students taking courses in each of the three areas of specialization. The depth is provided in the 7th and 8th semesters, as the program splits into the three option areas.</p>
<p class="basic-text">A one-year master of architectural engineering degree follows the four-year undergraduate program. This fifth year continues the specialized education in each of the three option areas, and provides an introduction to some of the professional practice topics that architectural engineers will need later in their careers.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The year of the AE program features a MAE design project. The project requires the student to practice all the design skills and understanding of building systems developed throughout the program. Students in teams will complete a significant building design in a manner that closely simulates professional practice. Industry and faculty members will serve as consultants to the students.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Architectural Engineering is accredited by the EAC-ABET, Inc. The accreditation is attached to the one-year master of architectural engineering degree.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR DEPARTMENT ADMISSION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students must complete at least 42 credit hours in the AE program before applying for admission to the degree program in AE. Transfer students must have all transfer hours accepted before applying for admission. The number admitted will depend on the availability of space, faculty, and other academic resources. Admission will be based on academic performance in a set of 42 credit hours of courses taken in the AE program. Students will not be permitted to register for more than 61 credit hours of courses listed in the AE curriculum until they have been accepted into the degree program in AE.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-2">All course numbers reflect the University of Nebraska-Omaha catalog system, as this program is only completed on the Omaha campus.</p>
<p class="title-2"><strong>First Semester</strong></p>
<p class="title-2">AE 1010<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Introduction to Architectural Engineering............................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>1</p>
<p class="title-2">SPCH 1110<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Public Speaking Fundamentals.........................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">MATH 1950<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Calculus I...................................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>5</p>
<p class="title-2">CHEM 1180<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>General Chemistry I......................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">CHEM 1184<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>General Chemistry I Laboratory........................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>1</p>
<p class="title-2">CIST 1400<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Introduction to Computer Programming..............................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">                                                                                 Subtotal: 16</p>
<p class="title-2"><strong>Second Semester</strong></p>
<p class="title-2">AE 2250<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Construction Graphics and Design Process...........................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">DSGN 1010<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Introduction to Design....................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>2</p>
<p class="title-2">MATH 1960<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Calculus II...................................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>5</p>
<p class="title-2">PHYS 2110<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>General Physics 1 - Calculus Level.....................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>4</p>
<p class="title-2">PHYS 1154<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>General Physics Laboratory I............................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>1</p>
<p class="title-2">                                                                                  Subtotal: 15</p>
<p class="title-2"><strong>Third Semester</strong></p>
<p class="title-2">MENG 2000<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Engineering Thermodynamics............................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">ARCH 2100/IDSG 2100<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Elements of  Arch Design I...............................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">MATH 1970<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Calculus III...................................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>4</p>
<p class="title-2">PHYS 2120<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>General Physics - Calculus Level........................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>4</p>
<p class="title-2">PHYS 1164<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>General Physics Laboratory II............................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>1</p>
<p class="title-2">MENG 2230<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Engineering Statics.........................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">                                                                                   Subtotal: 18</p>
<p class="title-2"><strong>Fourth Semester</strong></p>
<p class="title-2">ELEC 2110<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Elements of Electrical Engineering......................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">AE 2400<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Building Systems...........................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">MENG 3730<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Engineering Dynamics.....................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">MATH 2350<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Differential Equations......................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">AE 3070<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Mechanics of Materials Lab...............................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>1</p>
<p class="title-2">MENG 3250<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Mechanics of Elastic Bodies...............................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">                                                                                    Subtotal: 16</p>
<p class="title-2"><strong>Fifth Semester</strong></p>
<p class="title-2">AE 3200<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Lighting I: Fundamentals for Design...................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">AE 3300<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Building Acoustics Fundamentals........................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">CIVE 310/MENG 3100<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Fluid Mechanics.............................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">CIVE 319<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Hydraulics Laboratory.....................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>1</p>
<p class="title-2">CIVE 341<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Introduction to Structural Engineering..................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>4</p>
<p class="title-2">ENGL 3980<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Technical Writing Across the Disciplines................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">                                                                                    Subtotal: 17</p>
<p class="title-2">ENGL 3980: ENGR 3000 is an accepted equivalent for ENGL 3980.</p>
<p class="title-2"><strong>Sixth Semester</strong></p>
<p class="title-2">AE 3220<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Electrical Systems for Buildings I........................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">AE 3100<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>HVAC Fundamentals........................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">CIVE 441<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Steel Design I................................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">MENG 4200/MENG 8206<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Heat Transfer.................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">STAT 3800/STAT 8805<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Applied Engineering Probability and Statistics..........<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2"><span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>ACE Elective......<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;">.............................................................................</span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">                                                                                     Subtotal: 18</p>
<p class="title-2">ACE Elective: From ACE SLO 9.</p>
<p class="title-2"><strong>Seventh Semester</strong></p>
<p class="title-2">All options</p>
<p class="title-2">ART 3770<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>History of Architecture to 1850............................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">CONE 2060<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Engineering Economics.......................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">CIVE 440/CIVE 840<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Reinforced Concrete Design.................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">                                                                                       Subtotal: 9</p>
<p class="title-2">ART 3770: Satisfies ACE SLO 5</p>
<p class="title-2">ART 3770: AE 3770, Global Experiences in Architectural Engineering, is an accepted substitute for ART 3770 and satisfies ACE SLO 5</p>
<p class="title-2"><strong>Lighting and Electrical Options</strong></p>
<p class="title-2">AE 4200/AE 8206<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Lighting II: Theory, Design &amp; Application.........................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">AE 4120<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Building Energy II: Primary and Secondary Systems...................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">PSYC 1010<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Introduction to Psychology I..................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">                                                                                         Subtotal: 9</p>
<p class="title-2">PSYC 1010 Satisfies ACE SLO 6</p>
<p class="title-2"><strong>Mechanical and Acoustics Options</strong></p>
<p class="title-2">AE 4120<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Building Energy II: Primary and Secondary Systems....................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2"><span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>ACE Elective<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> ......................................................................................</span>3</p>
<p class="title-2"><span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>General Elective.................................................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">                                                                                         Subtotal: 9</p>
<p class="title-2">ACE electives: From ACE SLO 6</p>
<p class="title-2">General elective: Should be approved by your advisor</p>
<p class="title-2"><strong>Structural Option</strong></p>
<p class="title-2">CIVE 443<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Structural Analysis<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> ..............................................................</span>3</p>
<p class="title-2"><span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>ACE Elective<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> ......................................................................................</span>3</p>
<p class="title-2"><span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>General Elective.................................................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">                                                                                          Subtotal: 9</p>
<p class="title-2">ACE Electives: From ACE SLO 6.</p>
<p class="title-2">General Elective: Should be approved by your advisor.</p>
<p class="title-2"><strong>Eighth Semester</strong></p>
<p class="title-2">All options</p>
<p class="title-2">ART 3780<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>History of Architecture Since 1850...........................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">                                                                                          Subtotal: 3</p>
<p class="title-2">ART 3780: Satisfies ACE SLO 7.</p>
<p class="title-2"><strong>Lighting and Electrical Options</strong></p>
<p class="title-2">AE 4250<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Lighting Design....................................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>4</p>
<p class="title-2">PSYC 4210<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Sensation and Perception.............<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;">...........................................</span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">                                                                                           Subtotal: 7</p>
<p class="title-2"><strong>Mechanical and Acoustics Options</strong></p>
<p class="title-2">AE 4150<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>HVAC Design.......................................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>4</p>
<p class="title-2">AE 4300/AE 8306<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Advanced Noise Control..................................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">                                                                                           Subtotal: 7</p>
<p class="title-2"><strong>Structural Option</strong></p>
<p class="title-2">CIVE 334<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Introduction to Geotechnical Engineering.....................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>4</p>
<p class="title-2">CIVE 444/CIVE 844<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"> </span>Structural Design and Planning.................................<span class="Apple-tab-span" style="white-space: pre;"></span>3</p>
<p class="title-2">                                                                                            Subtotal: 7</p>

<div style="width: 1px; height: 1px; overflow: hidden; position: fixed; top: 10px; left: 10px;">
<p class="sc-RequirementsSubheading">First Semester</p>
<table class="MsoNormalTable" style="border-collapse: collapse; mso-yfti-tbllook: 1184; mso-padding-alt: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">AE 1010</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Introduction to Architectural Engineering</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">1</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">SPCH 1110</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Public Speaking Fundamentals</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">MATH 1950</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Calculus I</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">5</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">CHEM 1180</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">General Chemistry I</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">CHEM 1184</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">General Chemistry I Laboratory</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">1</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">CIST 1400</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Introduction to Computer Programming</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<div style="mso-element: para-border-div; border: none; border-top: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-top-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 1.0pt 0in 0in 0in;">
<p class="sc-Subtotal">Subtotal: 16</p>
</div>
<p class="sc-RequirementsSubheading">Second Semester</p>
<table class="MsoNormalTable" style="border-collapse: collapse; mso-yfti-tbllook: 1184; mso-padding-alt: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">AE 2250</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Construction Graphics and Design Process</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">DSGN 1010</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Introduction to Design</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">2</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">MATH 1960</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Calculus II</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">5</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">PHYS 2110</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">General Physics 1 - Calculus Level</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">4</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">PHYS 1154</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">General Physics Laboratory I</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">1</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<div style="mso-element: para-border-div; border: none; border-top: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-top-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 1.0pt 0in 0in 0in;">
<p class="sc-Subtotal">Subtotal: 15</p>
</div>

<p class="sc-RequirementsSubheading">Third Semester</p>
<table class="MsoNormalTable" style="border-collapse: collapse; mso-yfti-tbllook: 1184; mso-padding-alt: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">MENG 2000</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Engineering Thermodynamics</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">ARCH 2100/IDSG 2100</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Elements of  Arch Design I</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">MATH 1970</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Calculus III</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">4</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">PHYS 2120</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">General Physics - Calculus Level</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">4</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">PHYS 1164</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">General Physics Laboratory II</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">1</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">MENG 2230</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Engineering Statics</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<div style="mso-element: para-border-div; border: none; border-top: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-top-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 1.0pt 0in 0in 0in;">
<p class="sc-Subtotal">Subtotal: 18</p>
</div>
<p class="sc-RequirementsSubheading">Fourth Semester</p>
<table class="MsoNormalTable" style="border-collapse: collapse; mso-yfti-tbllook: 1184; mso-padding-alt: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">ELEC 2110</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Elements of Electrical Engineering</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">AE 2400</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Building Systems</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">MENG 3730</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Engineering Dynamics</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">MATH 2350</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Differential Equations</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">AE 3070</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Mechanics of Materials Lab</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">1</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">MENG 3250</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Mechanics of Elastic Bodies</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<div style="mso-element: para-border-div; border: none; border-top: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-top-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 1.0pt 0in 0in 0in;">
<p class="sc-Subtotal">Subtotal: 16</p>
</div>
<p class="sc-RequirementsSubheading">Fifth Semester</p>
<table class="MsoNormalTable" style="border-collapse: collapse; mso-yfti-tbllook: 1184; mso-padding-alt: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">AE 3200</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Lighting I: Fundamentals for Design</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">AE 3300</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Building Acoustics Fundamentals</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">CIVE 310/MENG 3100</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Fluid Mechanics</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">CIVE 319</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Hydraulics Laboratory</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">1</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">CIVE 341</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Introduction to Structural Engineering</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">4</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">ENGL 3980</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Technical Writing Across the Disciplines</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<div style="mso-element: para-border-div; border: none; border-top: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-top-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 1.0pt 0in 0in 0in;">
<p class="sc-Subtotal">Subtotal: 17</p>
</div>
<p class="sc-BodyText">ENGL 3980: ENGR 3000 is an accepted equivalent for ENGL 3980.</p>
<p class="sc-RequirementsSubheading">Sixth Semester</p>
<table class="MsoNormalTable" style="border-collapse: collapse; mso-yfti-tbllook: 1184; mso-padding-alt: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">AE 3220</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Electrical Systems for Buildings I</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">AE 3100</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">HVAC Fundamentals</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">CIVE 441</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Steel Design I</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">MENG 4200/MENG 8206</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Heat Transfer</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">STAT 3800/STAT 8805</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Applied Engineering Probability and Statistics</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">

</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">ACE Elective</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<div style="mso-element: para-border-div; border: none; border-top: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-top-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 1.0pt 0in 0in 0in;">
<p class="sc-Subtotal">Subtotal: 18</p>
</div>
<p class="sc-BodyText">ACE Elective: From ACE SLO 9.</p>
<p class="sc-RequirementsSubheading">Seventh Semester</p>
<p class="sc-BodyText">All options</p>
<table class="MsoNormalTable" style="border-collapse: collapse; mso-yfti-tbllook: 1184; mso-padding-alt: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">ART 3770</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">History of Architecture to 1850</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">CONE 2060</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Engineering Economics</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">CIVE 440/CIVE 840</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Reinforced Concrete Design</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<div style="mso-element: para-border-div; border: none; border-top: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-top-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 1.0pt 0in 0in 0in;">
<p class="sc-Subtotal">Subtotal: 9</p>
</div>
<p class="sc-BodyText">ART 3770: Satisfies ACE SLO 5</p>
<p class="sc-BodyText">ART 3770: AE 3770, Global Experiences in Architectural Engineering, is an accepted substitute for ART 3770 and satisfies ACE SLO 5</p>
<p class="sc-RequirementsSubheading">Lighting and Electrical Options</p>
<table class="MsoNormalTable" style="border-collapse: collapse; mso-yfti-tbllook: 1184; mso-padding-alt: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">AE 4200/AE 8206</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Lighting II: Theory, Design &amp; Application</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">AE 4120</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Building Energy II: Primary and Secondary Systems</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">PSYC 1010</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Introduction to Psychology I</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<div style="mso-element: para-border-div; border: none; border-top: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-top-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 1.0pt 0in 0in 0in;">
<p class="sc-Subtotal">Subtotal: 9</p>
</div>
<p class="sc-BodyText">PSYC 1010 Satisfies ACE SLO 6</p>
<p class="sc-RequirementsSubheading">Mechanical and Acoustics Options</p>
<table class="MsoNormalTable" style="border-collapse: collapse; mso-yfti-tbllook: 1184; mso-padding-alt: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">AE 4120</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Building Energy II: Primary and Secondary Systems</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">

</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">ACE Elective</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">

</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">General Elective</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<div style="mso-element: para-border-div; border: none; border-top: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-top-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 1.0pt 0in 0in 0in;">
<p class="sc-Subtotal">Subtotal: 9</p>
</div>
<p class="sc-BodyText">ACE electives: From ACE SLO 6</p>
<p class="sc-BodyText">General elective: Should be approved by your advisor</p>
<p class="sc-RequirementsSubheading">Structural Option</p>
<table class="MsoNormalTable" style="border-collapse: collapse; mso-yfti-tbllook: 1184; mso-padding-alt: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">CIVE 443</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Structural Analysis</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">

</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">ACE Elective</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">

</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">General Elective</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<div style="mso-element: para-border-div; border: none; border-top: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-top-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 1.0pt 0in 0in 0in;">
<p class="sc-Subtotal">Subtotal: 9</p>
</div>
<p class="sc-BodyText">ACE Electives: From ACE SLO 6.</p>
<p class="sc-BodyText">General Elective: Should be approved by your advisor.</p>
<p class="sc-RequirementsSubheading">Eighth Semester</p>
<p class="sc-BodyText">All options</p>
<table class="MsoNormalTable" style="border-collapse: collapse; mso-yfti-tbllook: 1184; mso-padding-alt: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">ART 3780</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">History of Architecture Since 1850</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<div style="mso-element: para-border-div; border: none; border-top: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-top-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 1.0pt 0in 0in 0in;">
<p class="sc-Subtotal">Subtotal: 3</p>
</div>
<p class="sc-BodyText">ART 3780: Satisfies ACE SLO 7.</p>
<p class="sc-RequirementsSubheading">Lighting and Electrical Options</p>
<table class="MsoNormalTable" style="border-collapse: collapse; mso-yfti-tbllook: 1184; mso-padding-alt: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">AE 4250</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Lighting Design</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">4</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">PSYC 4210</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Sensation and Perception</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<div style="mso-element: para-border-div; border: none; border-top: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-top-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 1.0pt 0in 0in 0in;">
<p class="sc-Subtotal">Subtotal: 7</p>
</div>

<p class="sc-RequirementsSubheading">Mechanical and Acoustics Options</p>
<table class="MsoNormalTable" style="border-collapse: collapse; mso-yfti-tbllook: 1184; mso-padding-alt: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">AE 4150</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">HVAC Design</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">4</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">AE 4300/AE 8306</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Advanced Noise Control</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<div style="mso-element: para-border-div; border: none; border-top: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-top-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 1.0pt 0in 0in 0in;">
<p class="sc-Subtotal">Subtotal: 7</p>
</div>
<p class="sc-RequirementsSubheading">Structural Option</p>
<table class="MsoNormalTable" style="border-collapse: collapse; mso-yfti-tbllook: 1184; mso-padding-alt: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">CIVE 334</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Introduction to Geotechnical Engineering</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">4</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="width: 65.0pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">CIVE 444/CIVE 844</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 164.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-Requirement">Structural Design and Planning</p>
</td>
<td style="width: 25.5pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt;">
<p class="sc-RequirementRight">3</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<div style="mso-element: para-border-div; border: none; border-top: solid windowtext 1.0pt; mso-border-top-alt: solid windowtext .5pt; padding: 1.0pt 0in 0in 0in;">
<p class="sc-Subtotal">Subtotal: 7</p>
</div>
</div>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="basic-text">Because of rapid technical developments, the AE curriculum will be continually reviewed and upgraded. Currently enrolled students are expected to modify their programs to take advantage of such revisions. Students who do not maintain continuous progress toward the degree through enrollment in applicable course work will be considered as new students upon re-entering the program and will be subject to the requirements of the undergraduate catalog current at the time of their re-entry.</p>
<p class="basic-text">AE students must pass any course offered by the AE program (those with an AE or CIVE prefix) with a grade of “C-” or higher to obtain credit toward graduation for that course. All courses that are prerequisites for AE or CE courses must be passed with a grade of “C-” or higher to obtain entry into the subsequent course.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The AE program follows the UNL ACE general education requirements. Because of the specific needs of the program, most of these courses are specified in the curriculum.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Please contact Christine Warren, Student Services Coordinator, at cwarren2@unl.edu or 402-554-3918, if you are interested in more information about this program.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>