<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Athletic Training 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="athletic-training-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Athletic Training</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Athletic Training</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.5 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Vicki Fisher</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Athletic training is the art and science of treating athletic injuries. The Commission on Accreditation of Athletic Training Education (CAATE) develops and maintains guidelines for colleges and universities to provide an education for athletic training and verifies that those standards have been met. The University of Nebraska–Lincoln athletic training program is currently granted accreditation status by the CAATE. The underlying philosophy of this program is the same as with all other components of the University of Nebraska athletic medicine program.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The athletic training education program is dedicated to providing students with educational programming that is recognized as excellent. It is dedicated to providing students with opportunities to have clinical experiences with teams noted for excellence, in facilities noted for excellence. It is also expected that students will display excellence in academic and clinical settings, and will adhere to the highest standards as put forth in the National Athletic Trainers Association Code of Professional Ethics. The University of Nebraska athletic training education program is dedicated to the continual assessment of our program and our students in order to maintain our standards.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The athletic training education program is housed in the Department of Nutrition and Health Sciences. Completion of the entire program constitutes a major field of study. Students completing the course of study are eligible to sit for the National Athletic Trainers Association Board of Certification Examination.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are required to earn a B- or higher in ATHT 145 in order to continue in the program. All other ATHT courses must be a C+ or higher and must average at least 3.0 to remain in good standing in the program and graduate. The minimum grade requirements for other courses vary. Students are strongly encouraged to contact the advising center for a complete program description.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Admission to the athletic training education program is competitive. Included in athletic training education are six semesters of required clinical internship.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Before a student is admitted to the athletic training education program, they must undergo a period of observation in the training rooms at the University of Nebraska. This period serves two purposes. First, it allows the student to make an informed decision about whether they wish to pursue athletic training as a career. Second, it allows the staff athletic trainers to observe the students work habits and social skills. The ability to work long and sometimes tedious hours and the ability to work well with people is absolutely necessary to be a successful athletic trainer.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Observation lasts for one year, and is tied to the completion of ATHT 145 and ATHT 146. During the first few weeks of the fall semester, the student will be assigned to a rotation between the various sports and training rooms at the University of Nebraska. The student will be asked to observe approximately five hours per week with the various athletic trainers at UNL. During these rotations, the student is expected to finish weekly assignments, which reflect the knowledge and abilities that are expected of an introductory student in athletic training. If a student does not complete the course of study or does not complete ATHT 145 and ATHT 146 with a grade of B- or better, they will be asked to repeat the observational period.</p>
<p class="basic-text">During the spring semester, the students interested in continuing the athletic training curriculum will apply to the director of athletic training for admittance to ATHT 247. Applications will be considered based on the following criteria:</p>
<ul>
<li>Completion of ATHT 145 and ATHT 146 with a grade of B- or better.</li>
<li>A cumulative grade point average of 2.75 or better.</li>
<li>Evaluations provided by the staff athletic trainers supervising the students during their observational experiences.</li>
<li>Completion of an application provided by the director of athletic training education, along with an interview with the admissions committee.</li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">There are a maximum number of students that may be admitted to the curriculum. Therefore, this application process is competitive. Candidates will be evaluated by the entire athletic training staff, and will be selected based on the work and academic criteria outlined above.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Degree at a Glance</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Requirements 32</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 1. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 2. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 3. EDPS 330 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> EDPS 459 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> STAT 218 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses) (C or higher required)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 4. CHEM 109 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Course)</span> 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 5. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 6. PSYC 181 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Course) (C+ or higher required)</span> 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 7. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 8. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 9. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 10. ATHT 445 <span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Professional Requirements 45</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHT 145, ATHT 146, ATHT 245, ATHT 246, ATHT 249, ATHT 446 (3 hrs ea) 18</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHT 345, ATHT 346 (4 hrs ea) 8</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ATHT 247, ATHT 248, ATHT 347, ATHT 348, ATHT 447, ATHT 448 (1 hr ea) 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NUTR 100, NUTR 250, NUTR 384, NUTR 484 (3 hrs ea) <span class="requirement-ital">(C+ or higher required)</span> 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NUTR 150 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Supporting Courses 27-31</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 102 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MATH 103 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MATH 106 <span class="requirement-ital">(C or higher required)</span> 2-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L <span class="requirement-ital">(C or higher required)</span> 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L <span class="requirement-ital">(C or higher required)</span> 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 213L <span class="requirement-ital">(C+ or higher required)</span> 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 214 <span class="requirement-ital">(C+ or higher required)</span> 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 110 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHYS 141 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> PHYS 151 4-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Electives 12-16</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 120</p>
<p class="title-1">ACE Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). It is highly recommended that students contact their advisor prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">Grades of D-, D, D+, C- satisfy requirements of the programs in human sciences unless specified otherwise under the Programs and Departments section of the bulletin. Students who receive a grade of D-, D, D+, or C-, however, are encouraged to retake the course, particularly if it is in the major area.</p>
<p class="title-2">Grades Earned Outside UN System</p>
<p class="basic-text">Up to 9 hours of grades below C (C-, D+, D, D-) from other academic institutions can only be applied to general education requirements and elective classes.</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">All courses specified by course and number must be taken for a grade.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>
<p class="title-1">Criminal History Background Check Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS) has the responsibility to ensure that our students who interact with children served by schools or other agencies meet a high level of personal, professional and ethical behavior. Students in non-teacher education programs who interact with pre-school or with school age youth, in pre-schools, schools or in a public agency setting, must complete an official criminal history background check approved by the CEHS vendor prior to participating in a field experience or internship. Students are responsible for the cost of criminal history background checks. If more than three years elapse after the initial background check is conducted, the College reserves the right to require completion of additional background checks. Eighteen months after the initial Criminal History Background Check, undergraduate students are required to complete the CEHS self-disclosure report. Graduate students will be required to complete the self-disclosure report at the same time as the initial background check is conducted and again eighteen months later.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students with felony or any misdemeanor charges or convictions as reported on the background check will be contacted by the College and may be required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Professional Experiences. This meeting will be held so that the student can receive guidance with respect to the impact of the charge or conviction on the student's future in the College and success in their profession. <span class="basic-text-bold">If any new charges or convictions are acquired after a background check, students are required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Professional Experiences within two weeks after the event occurs. Failure to disclose any new information concerning one's criminal history can lead to removal from the program.</span> Continued participation in school-based or community-based field experiences in the College will be based on the type and number of convictions, the recentness of their occurrence, and whether these violate the requirements of the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services and/or the Nebraska Department of Education. If the convictions are deemed to be serious in nature, students may be prohibited from participating in a field experience in a pre-school, school or public agency setting. The student may then be referred to the department chair for further disciplinary action.</p>
<p class="title-1">Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to criminal convictions, other non-criminal behaviors which: involve risks that are unacceptable for the children charged to their care; demonstrate a lack of professionalism and good judgment; and evidence a disregard for one’s personal reputation or the integrity of the College, may bring into question a student’s ability to be successful in their profession. Before engaging in such questionable behavior, students must consider how the College, the profession, an employer, or the community would perceive or evaluate the impact of that behavior. Students must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and others. Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences is most interested in training students who show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act responsibly.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should the College, through the reasonable exercise of the judgment of its Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences, determine that a student’s individual behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons, the College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to deny entry to or dismiss such a student from any program. More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum or field experience, since the interests and safety of the children, and young people present in the practicum settings are paramount. The consequences of unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will differ depending upon the unique circumstances involved in each matter. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students' fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that safety in the field experience, the reputation of the College, and the best interest of the students, are all recognized and promoted.</p>
<p class="title-1">Appeal to the Dean</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences with respect to a criminal behavior or unprofessional behavior, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing, within ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student’s written appeal shall clearly explain the basis for the student’s appeal. The Dean will review the student’s basis for appeal, and is authorized, but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student’s written appeal. The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possibly, but in no case longer than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences a written decision which shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review within the University of Nebraska.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>