<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Biological Systems Engineering 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="biological-systems-engineering-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Biological Systems Engineering</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Biological Systems Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Biological Systems Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 133</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.4 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> </p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="title-2">Department of Biological Systems Engineering</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Head: Mark Riley</span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors: </span>Dvorak, Eisenhauer, Hoy, Irmak, Jones, Koelsch, Kranz, Martin, Meyer, Shelton, Weller, Wolstad, Yang, Yoder</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors: </span>Bashford, Franti, Kocher, Othman, Pannier, Stowell, Subbiah, Woldt</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors: </span>Ge, Heeren, Keshwani, Liska, Luck, Melander, Munoz-Arriola, Pitla, Schmidt</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturers: </span>Heithold, Mabie<span class="faculty-list-bold"></span><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website: </span>http://bsen.unl.edu/</p>
<p class="basic-text">Biological systems engineering (BSEN) is one of two engineering degree programs offered in the Department of Biological Systems Engineering. BSEN students emphasize engineering course work in one of three areas; biomedical engineering, bioenergy and food engineering, or environmental and water resources engineering. A biological systems engineer could work on systems to micropropagate tissue culture, develop biomaterials and biofibers, design equipment and processes for producing foods and biofuels, or design devices for performing minimally invasive surgery. Still another could be responsible for developing biological sensors and imaging devices for detecting diseases in humans, for measuring plant and animal stress, or for controlling the environment of greenhouses and animal facilities. Biological systems engineers could also be involved in resolving environmental issues associated with waste management, water quality and sustainable energy production. Job opportunities for graduates are available in industry, public agencies, consulting, and private practice. A significant number of graduates pursue graduate school or studies in medical or law school.</p>
<p class="basic-text">By two to six years after graduation, BSEN alumni will share the attribute of improving the organization for which they work, and the community and country in which they live. They will do this whether they are involved in biomedical engineering, environmental or water resources engineering, bioenergy and food engineering, or other professional endeavors such as business, law or medicine. In doing so, they will:</p>
<ul>
<li class="bullet-1">provide innovative and effective solutions to problems in a variety of work environments through the use of their unique background in biological systems engineering and the biological sciences;</li>
<li class="bullet-1">look beyond components in isolation thereby providing holistic solutions to complex issues involving (for example) interactions at the ecosystem, organism, organ, cellular or subcellular level;</li>
<li class="bullet-1">think logically using appropriate elements of mathematics, science, and engineering to develop, manage, and interpret data, to correctly interpret new research findings, and to design new systems for the benefit of society;</li>
<li class="bullet-1">successfully integrate technical knowledge with organizational, communication, and interpersonal skills to lead and work effectively in teams and to articulate the role of engineering decisions in the workplace, community and world;</li>
<li class="bullet-1">responsibly address issues such as health and safety, personal and professional ethics, cultural diversity, as well as the social, environmental, and global impacts of their work; and</li>
<li class="bullet-1">continue their personal growth, professional development, and professional and community service through various opportunities provided by institutions, professional organizations and other venues.</li>
</ul>
<p class="basic-text">The Department of Biological Systems Engineering is located in Chase Hall on East Campus. BSEN students participate in classes and laboratories on both the East and City Campuses. BSEN courses are offered on the East Campus. Basic courses in math, chemistry, physics, engineering sciences, computers, and electives in mechanical, civil, electrical, and chemical engineering are taken on the City Campus. Convenient bus transportation is available between campuses.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students benefit from small classes and personal acquaintances with faculty. In consultation with their adviser, students select electives that permit specialization in an emphasis area applicable to their career aspirations. Many students work part-time on departmental research projects, gaining valuable experience for employment in industry and for graduate or professional studies. Students also benefit from summer jobs, internships and co-op programs. These opportunities give students practical experience to learn about careers in engineering. Students also gain valuable experience through participation in professional organizations such as the American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers, the Water and Environmental Federation, the Soil and Water Resources Club, the Biomedical Engineering Society, the Nebraska Society of Professional Engineers and the Society for Women Engineers.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR DEPARTMENT ADMISSION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Pre-professionally admitted COE students majoring in biological systems engineering (BSEN) have their records examined for advancement to professionally admitted status during the fall, spring, and summer immediately following the term in which 43 or more credits applicable to the BSEN degree have been completed. <span class="basic-text-bold">Students must be professionally admitted in order to enroll in AGEN</span><span class="basic-text-bold">/</span><span class="basic-text-bold">BSEN 470.</span><br /><br />To be professionally admitted to BSEN the student must first meet the general Professional Admission criteria of the College of Engineering (i.e., completion of at least one semester in the College, a cumulative GPA of 2.5 or greater, and not having been already declined admission by two other engineering majors). BSEN Professional Admission criteria require consistent grades of C or better in calculus, calculus-based physics, chemistry, communications, and engineering science courses. Specifically, the student must have completed MECH 223 and AGEN 225/BSEN 225 or BSEN 244 with grades of a C or better to gain Professional Admission to BSEN. In addition, the student must complete the AGEN/BSEN Writing Assessment Exam (i.e., Grammar Slammer) before Professional Admission is granted.<br /><br />Students who meet the above criteria with a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or greater with all grades above a C in UNL mathematics, science, engineering, and communications courses, and scoring 70 percent or higher on the AGEN/BSEN Writing Assessment Exam may be professionally admitted without further review by Department faculty. Students scoring less than 70 percent on the AGEN/BSEN Writing Assessment Exam must agree to a writing improvement plan with their academic adviser in order to be granted professional admission. Students not meeting the 3.0 GPA standard, or having grades below a C in the listed areas, will have their record reviewed by Department faculty for evidence of ability to succeed in BSEN. Under special circumstances, the Department may elect to defer Professional Admission for an additional term.<br /><br /><span class="basic-text-bold">The Department faculty may recommend provisional admission and specify deficiencies and performance criteria to transition out of provisional status. If a student has not met the admission criteria and has not, in the opinion of the Department faculty demonstrated a minimum standard of good professional judgment in the pursuit of their academic program as expected of degreed engineers, they may be denied Professional Admission to the degree program. The student may appeal this decision to the BSE Department Head and then, if necessary, to the College of Engineering Curriculum and Academic Standards Committee. </span></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">First Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 100 Introduction to Biological Engineering &amp; Agricultural Engineering (AGEN 100) 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 113 Fundamental Chemistry I 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">CHEM 109 may be substituted with permission of adviser.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 10 Freshman Engineering Seminar 0</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 106 Calculus I 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Electives 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Second Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 112 Computer-Aided Problem-Solving (AGEN 112) 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 114 Fundamental Chemistry II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">CHEM 110 (4 cr) may be substituted with permission of adviser.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 107 Calculus II 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Organizational Skills Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose from a list of 40+ courses available from adviser.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Third Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 225 Engineering Properties of Biological Materials (AGEN 225) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 253 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 255 &amp; CHEM 257 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 261 &amp; CHEM 263 Organic Chemistry &amp; Lab 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 20 Sophomore Engineering Seminar 0</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 208 Calculus III 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 223 Engineering Statics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 17</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fourth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 130 Computer-Aided Design (CIVE 130) 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 244 Thermodynamics of Living Systems 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L Fundamentals of Biology I &amp; Lab 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MECH 373 Engineering Dynamics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Computer Programming Elective 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose from: BSEN 212A, BSEN 212B, or BSEN 212E</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fifth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L Fundamentals of Biology II &amp; Lab 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CIVE 310 or MECH 310 Fluid Mechanics <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHME 332 Transport Operations I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ELEC 211 Elements of Electrical Engineering I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">IMSE 321 Engineering Statistics &amp; Data Analysis <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MATH 380 Statistics &amp; Applications (STAT 380) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN Emphasis Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Sixth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOC 321 Elements of Biochemistry <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BIOC 431 Structure and Metabolism 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 344 Biological &amp; Environmental Transport Processes (AGEN 344) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN Emphasis Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Engineering or Science Emphasis Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Oral Communication Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose from: ALEC 102; COMM 209, COMM 210, COMM 283, or COMM 286; GERM 303; JAPN 202; JGEN 300; RUSS 304; SPAN 303</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 18</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Seventh Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 206 Engineering Economics (CONE 206) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 460 Instrumentation &amp; Controls (AGEN 460) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 470 Design I in Agricultural &amp; Biological Systems Engineering (AGEN 470) 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN Emphasis Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Engineering or Science Emphasis Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Eighth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 480 Design II in Agricultural &amp; Biological Systems Engineering (AGEN 480) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 400 Professional Ethics &amp; Social Responsibilities 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Choose one course from not yet satisfied ACE outcomes 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Biological Science Electives 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">BIOS 203 is not acceptable; a minimum of two BIOS, BIOC or equivalent laboratory courses, or two courses with laboratories, is required within the 16 hrs of biological sciences and biochemistry courses</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN Emphasis Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Engineering Emphasis Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 18</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Credit Hours Required 133</p>
<p class="title-1">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">An emphasis area requires a student to take 21 hours of engineering and science-based courses. A minimum of 15 hours must be selected from courses offered by the College of Engineering. Within the 15 hours, a minimum of 12 hours must be BSEN courses or engineering courses crosslisted with BSEN. Of the BSEN or BSEN crosslisted courses, one must be a 300-level course of a primary emphasis area, one must be a 300-level course of a secondary emphasis area and one must be a 400-level course of a primary emphasis area. Water and Environment emphasis requires both BSEN 326 and BSEN 350, Food and Bioproducts emphasis requires BSEN 303, and Biomedical emphasis requires BSEN 317 as primary emphasis area courses.</p>
<p class="title-2">BSEN Primary Emphasis Area Courses</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Food and Bioproducts</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 303 Principles of Process Engineering (AGEN 303)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 444 Biomass &amp; Bioenergy Engineering <span class="requirement-bold">and</span> BSEN 446 Unit Operations of Biological Processing (AGEN 446)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Biomedical</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 317 Introduction to Biomedical Engineering</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 311 Biomedical Signal &amp; System Analysis <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BSEN 414 Medical Imaging Systems <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BSEN 416 Introduction to Biomaterials <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BSEN 418 Tissue Engineering</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Water and Environment</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 326 Introduction to Environmental Engineering (CIVE 326) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BSEN 355 Introduction to Ecological Engineering</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 350 Soil &amp; Water Resources Engineering (AGEN 350)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BSEN 441 Animal Waste Management (AGEN 441) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BSEN 453 Irrigation &amp; Drainage Systems Engineering (AGEN 453) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BSEN 455 Nonpoint Source Pollution Control Engineering (CIVE 455) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BSEN 458 Groundwater Engineering (CIVE 458)</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">A grade of C- or better is required for all Biological Systems Engineering required courses and electives that are to count toward graduation, with the exception of ACE 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 electives.</p>
<p class="title-2">Bulletin to Use</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to the “Bulletin Rule” of the College of Engineering, students transferring into the Department of Biological Systems Engineering must follow the bulletin in effect at the time of their transfer into the department.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>