<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Business Minor for Raikes (ENGR) 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="business-minor-for-raikes-engr-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Business Minor for Raikes (ENGR)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Business Minor for Raikes (ENGR)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 18</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> </p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">This minor is applicable ONLY to students participating in the Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management. </span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph">The College of Engineering enables its students to participate in this approved minor subject to the following conditions:</p>
<p class="list">1. A minor will not reduce or alter the existing course or degree requirements for students electing to pursue a minor.</p>
<p class="list">2. A student’s minor program must be organized and approved by an adviser prior to the submission of the senior check to the department chair or head.</p>
<p class="list">3. The minor must be approved by the adviser, the department chair or head, the Dean and the cognizant program offering the minor.</p>
<p class="list">4. The College of Engineering will follow the “Plan A/B” format of the Arts and Sciences College in which a student pursuing a single minor must complete the “Plan A” requirements. A student pursuing a double (or greater) minor must fulfill either the “Plan A” or “Plan B” requirements for both minors depending on which plan is offered by the cognizant department.</p>
<p class="list">5. Minors on the Lincoln or Omaha campuses may be added by approval of the College of Engineering Curriculum Committee and faculty.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Required Foundation Courses 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">RAIK 181H Honors: Foundations of Business I (BSAD 181H) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">RAIK 182H Honors: Foundations of Business II (BSAD 182H) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Required Business Core Courses 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">RAIK 281H Honors: Business Systems &amp; Operations I (BSAD 281H) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">RAIK 341H Honors: <span class="requirement-sec-2">Marketing (BSAD 341H)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">RAIK 381H Honors: Advanced Topics in Business I (BSAD 381H) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">RAIK 382H Honors: Advanced Topics in Business II (BSAD 382H) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total hours for the minor 18</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">All courses must be taken for a letter grade.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>