<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Child Development/Early Childhood Education 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="child-development-early-childhood-education-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Child Development/Early Childhood Education</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Child Development/Early Childhood Education</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Val Wiemeyer</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">These students are prepared to work effectively with children in a variety of settings such as childcare programs, nonprofit organizations, and family childcare.</p>
<p class="title-1">General Information</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College offers undergraduate programs leading to a bachelor of science in education and human sciences degree in more than 40 different teaching endorsements. Some students in other UNL colleges choose to seek certification, completing a degree in their home college while meeting all requirements for teacher certification in the College of Education and Human Sciences.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Early field placement in public and private schools is a nationally recognized hallmark of the teacher education program in the College of Education and Human Sciences. While internships are a valuable enhancement to many students’ education, in the College of Education and Human Sciences, practicum experiences and student teaching are a critical and essential part of the teacher education curriculum and must be successfully completed. A student’s inability to complete these field experiences, for any reason, may adversely impact the candidate’s ability to gain admission into the College or maintain enrollment in a teacher preparation program. Students unlikely or unable to complete the field experience may be counseled to seek other opportunities where success is more attainable. (See “Criminal History Background Check Requirement” and “Professional and Ethical Behavior” under the OTHER heading for additional information with respect to behaviors impacting field experience participation.)</p>
<p class="basic-text">Teacher education endorsements (or majors) are divided into field endorsements or single-subject endorsements. Field endorsements certify the candidate to teach a broader range of courses compared to single-subject endorsements, which certify the candidate to teach in one subject area only. Consequently, a teacher holding a field endorsement is typically more marketable than a teacher holding a single-subject endorsement.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Candidates may also elect to complete requirements for supplemental endorsements; these are additional endorsements that can be added to a field or single-subject endorsement but cannot be taken alone. Supplemental endorsements require additional credit hours beyond those needed for the first endorsement (field or single-subject). Teachers may increase their marketability by adding supplemental endorsements.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may also choose to complete requirements for two endorsements simultaneously. Completing a second endorsement will require additional credit hours beyond those required for the first endorsement. Often the completion of two endorsements requires more than 120 credit hours of course work and may require additional semesters of course work. Students may contact the College Student Services Center, 105 Henzlik Hall, or their adviser, for assistance in deciding whether to complete: field or single-subject endorsements, one or more supplemental endorsements, or multiple endorsements.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Endorsement Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Degree at a Glance</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Requirements 30-34</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 1. ENGL 101, ENGL 150,ENGL 151, ENGL 254 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 2. ALEC 102, COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 210, COMM 283, or COMM 286 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 3. ECON 215, EDPS 459, MATH 104, MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 203, MATH 208; or STAT 218 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 4. ANTH 242 &amp; ANTH 242L; CHEM 105, CHEM 109, CHEM 110, CHEM 113; ENTO 115 &amp; ENTO 116; GEOG 155; GEOL 101, GEOL 103; LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L; LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L; METR 100; NRES 108; PHYS 141, PHYS 142, PHYS 151 &amp; PHYS 153, PHYS 260 &amp; PHYS 262; or TMFD 206 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 5. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 6. CYAF 160 <span class="requirement-ital">(CYAF Professional Core)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 7. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 8. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 9. CYAF 495 <span class="requirement-ital">(CYAF Professional Core)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 10. CYAF 497A <span class="requirement-ital">(Education Core)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Supporting Courses 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">LIBR 110 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF Core Requirements 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 222, CYAF 333, CYAF 380, CYAF 382, CYAF 488 (3 hrs ea) 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Education Core Requirements 39-40</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 210, CYAF 271, CYAF 374, CYAF 474 (3 hrs ea) 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 270 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 210L, CYAF 270L, CYAF 271L, CYAF 374L, (1 hr ea) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 497A (3 hrs are met in ACE 10) 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NUTR 100 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course:</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">EDPS 462, SLPA 150, SPED 201, SPED 303, SPED 480 or PSYC 380</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select two courses:</span> 6-7</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">CYAF 371 &amp; CYAF 371L or CYAF 383 or CYAF 384</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Concentration Area <span class="requirement-ital">(Choose one concentration)</span> 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Program Management</span> (12 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 477 (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course:</span> EDAD 421, ALEC 202, or ALEC 302 (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select two courses:</span> ACCT 202, ECON 210, MNGT 121, MNGT 320, MNGT 321, or ENTR 291 (6 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Nature Education</span> (12 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 384 (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select three courses:</span> ANTH 473, CYAF 493, BIOS 232, ENTO 115 &amp; ENTO 116, ENTO 109, HORT 200, LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L, NRES 220 &amp; NRES 222, SOCI 446, or ENVR 201 (9 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Infants and Toddlers</span> (13 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 371 (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 371L (1 hr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 497I (6 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">SPED 463 (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Pre-Graduate School/Research</span> (12 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 498 (3-6 hrs) (Suggested: UCARE proposal)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select two courses:</span> EDPS 459, EDPS 470, PSYC 350, PSYC 450, SOCI 205, SOCI 206, SOCI 407 (6 hrs) (Research Methods)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">Select <span class="requirement-ital">one course from:</span> PSYC 270, PSYC 470, Nature Education electives (see above) (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">Suggested: UCARE proposal</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Electives 18-23</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 120</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for CYAF courses. All CYAF courses must be taken for a grade (not Pass/No Pass).</p>
<p class="title-1">ACE Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for CYAF courses.</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">All CYAF courses must be taken for a grade (not Pass/No Pass).</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>
<p class="title-1">Criminal History Background Check Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS)has the responsibility to ensure that our students who interact with children served by schools or other agencies meet a high level of personal, professional and ethical behavior. Nebraska Department of Education policy requires that a person with any felony conviction or a misdemeanor conviction involving assault, abuse, neglect, or sexual misconduct shall not be allowed to participate in pre-student teaching laboratory and classroom experiences or student teach without approval of the State Board of Education. In addition, the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services standards apply to all individuals working in any capacity with pre-school children who are not yet in kindergarten. To comply with these two sets of standards, the College of Education and Human Sciences will require each student in a teacher education program to complete two formal reviews of their criminal history, which is conducted by the approved CEHS vendor. The first criminal history background check will be completed during the first semester of the student's entry into the College. This must be completed before the first field experience. The second criminal history background check will take place as part of the student teaching application process, culminating experience, or internship. Students are responsible for the cost of the criminal history background checks. If more than three years elapse after the initial background check is conducted, the College reserves the right to require completion of additional background checks. Eighteen months after the initial Criminal History Background Check, undergraduate students are required to complete the CEHS self-disclosure report. Graduate students will be required to complete the self-disclosure report at the same time as the initial background check is conducted and again eighteen months later.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students will any felony or any misdemeanor charges or convictions, as reported on the background check, will be contacted by the College and may be required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Professional Experiences. This meeting will be held so that the student can receive guidance with respect to the impact of the charge or conviction on the student's future in the College and the profession of education. <strong>If any new charges or convictions are acquired after any background check, students are required to met with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Professional Experiences within two weeks after the event occurs. Failure to disclose any new information concerning one's criminal history can lead to removal from the program.</strong> A student's ability to continue to participate in any teacher education program in the College will be based on the type and number of convictions, the recentness of their occurrence, and whether these violate the standards of the Nebraska Department of Education and/or the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services. The standards that the College sets for its students may be more stringent than the rules of the Nebraska Department of Education or the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services. The consequences of one conviction compared to another may vary significantly, depending upon the facts underlying the convictions.</p>
<p class="title-1">Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to criminal convictions, other non-criminal behaviors which: involve risks that are unacceptable for future teachers and the children charged to their care; demonstrate a lack of professionalism and good judgment; and evidence a disregard for one’s personal reputation, the integrity of the College and the teaching profession, may bring into question a student’s ability to be successful in an education career. Before engaging in such questionable behavior, students must consider how the College, the profession, educational employer, parents of school-aged children, and the community of Nebraska would perceive or evaluate the impact of that behavior with respect to the student's ability to serve children. Teaching is a profession that requires its potential candidates to be individuals of the highest integrity. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students' fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that safety in the classroom, the reputation of the College, and the best interest of the student, are all recognized and promoted. Should the College, through the reasonable exercise of the judgement of its Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences, determine that a student's individual behavior represent a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons and others in the educational community, the College of Education and Human Sciences may deny entry to or dismiss such a student from any program which leads to certification or to services of children in a community agency. More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum, pre-practicum, student teaching or similar field experience, since the interests and safety of the children and young people present in the classroom, schools and other practicum settings are paramount. Students will be expected to meet Nebraska standards for personal and professional fitness, as described in the Nebraska Application for Teacher Certification. The consequences for unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will differ given the unique circumstances involved in each matter.</p>
<p class="title-1">Appeal to the Dean</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences with respect to a criminal behavior or unprofessional behavior, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing, within ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student's written appeal shall clearly explain the basis for the appeal. The Dean will review the student's basis for appeal and is authorized but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student's written appeal. The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possible, but no later than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the students and the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences a written decision, which shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review with the University of Nebraska.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>