<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Child, Youth &amp; Family Studies Minor 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="child-youth-family-studies-minor-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Child, Youth &amp; Family Studies Minor</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Child, Youth &amp; Family Studies Minor</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 18</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> </p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="title-1">Child, Youth and Family Studies Minor (18 hrs)</p>
<ul>
<li>CYAF 160 (3 hrs)</li>
<li>CYAF 280 (3 hrs)</li>
<li>Four courses in the Department, two of which must be at the 300 level or above.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for CYAF courses.</p>

<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>
<p class="title-1">Criminal History Background Check Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS) has the responsibility to ensure that our students who interact with children served by schools or other agencies meet a high level of personal, professional and ethical behavior. Students in non-teacher education programs who interact with pre-school or with school age youth, in pre-schools, schools or in a public agency setting, must complete an official criminal history background check approved by the CEHS vendor prior to participating in a field experience or internship. Students are responsible for the cost of criminal history background checks. If more than three years elapse after the initial background check is conducted, the College reserves the right to require completion of additional background checks. Eighteen months after the initial Criminal History Background Check, undergraduate students are required to complete the CEHS self-disclosure report. Graduate students will be required to complete the self-disclosure report at the same time as the initial background check is conducted and again eighteen months later.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students with felony or any misdemeanor charges or convictions as reported on the background check will be contacted by the College and may be required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Professional Experiences. This meeting will be held so that the student can receive guidance with respect to the impact of the charge or conviction on the student's future in the College and success in their profession. <strong>If any new charges or convictions are acquired after a background check, students are required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Professional Experiences within two weeks after the event occurs. Failure to disclose any new information concerning one's criminal history can lead to removal from the program.</strong> Continued participation in school-based or community-based field experiences in the College will be based on the type and number of convictions, the recentness of their occurrence, and whether these violate the requirements of the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services and/or the Nebraska Department of Education. If the convictions are deemed to be serious in nature, students may be prohibited from participating in a field experience in a pre-school, school or public agency setting. The student may then be referred to the department chair for further disciplinary action.</p>
<p class="title-1">Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to criminal convictions, other non-criminal behaviors which: involve risks that are unacceptable for the children charged to their care; demonstrate a lack of professionalism and good judgment; and evidence a disregard for one’s personal reputation or the integrity of the College, may bring into question a student’s ability to be successful in their profession. Before engaging in such questionable behavior, students must consider how the College, the profession, an employer, or the community would perceive or evaluate the impact of that behavior. Students must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and others. Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences is most interested in training students who show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act responsibly.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should the College, through the reasonable exercise of the judgment of its Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences, determine that a student’s individual behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons, the College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to deny entry to or dismiss such a student from any program. More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum or field experience, since the interests and safety of the children, and young people present in the practicum settings are paramount. The consequences of unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will differ depending upon the unique circumstances involved in each matter. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students' fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that safety in the field experience, the reputation of the College, and the best interest of the students, are all recognized and promoted.</p>
<p class="title-1">Appeal to the Dean</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences with respect to a criminal behavior or unprofessional behavior, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing, within ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student’s written appeal shall clearly explain the basis for the student’s appeal. The Dean will review the student’s basis for appeal, and is authorized, but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student’s written appeal. The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possibly, but in no case longer than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences a written decision which shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review within the University of Nebraska.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>