<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Child, Youth &amp; Family Studies/Journalism &amp; Mass Communications 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="child-youth-family-studies-journalism-mass-communications-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Child, Youth &amp; Family Studies/Journalism &amp; Mass Communications</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Child, Youth &amp; Family Studies/Journalism &amp; Mass Communications</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120-127</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">ADVISOR:</span> Judy Hofeldt</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">This option is a joint program between the Department of Child, Youth and Family Studies and the College of Journalism and Mass Communications (JMC). The student combines a broad background in child, youth and family studies with one emphasis from JMC (advertising and public relations, broadcasting, or journalism) of the student’s choice. Career opportunities may include production editing, reporting, photography, advertising and sales.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Program Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Degree at a Glance</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">ACE Requirements 30</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 1. ADPR 283 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> JOUR 202 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 2. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 3. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 4. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 5. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 6. CYAF 160 <span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Core Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 7. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 8. JOMC 487 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 9. CYAF 495A <span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Core Requirement) or any ACE 9 Cultural Diversity course </span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 10. CYAF 497D <span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Core Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Supporting Courses 10-14</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one:</span> ALEC 102, COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 210, COMM 286 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one:</span> ECON 215, EDPS 459, MATH 104, MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 203, MATH 208, STAT 218 3-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LIBR 110 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one:</span> ANTH 242 &amp; ANTH 242L, LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L, LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L, CHEM 105, CHEM 109, CHEM 110, CHEM 113, ENTO 115 &amp; ENTO 116, GEOG 155, GEOL 101, GEOL 103, METR 100, NRES 108, PHYS 141, PHYS 142, PHYS 151 &amp; PHYS 153, PHYS 260 &amp; PHYS 262, TMFD 206 3-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">CYAF Core Requirements 18</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CYAF 222, CYAF 280, CYAF 285, <span class="requirement-bold"></span> CYAF 382, CYAF 460,  CYAF 488 (3 hrs ea) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">CYAF Supporting Courses 25</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">  CYAF 322, CYAF 333, (CYAF 446 or CYAF 458), CYAF 471, CYAF 493 (3 hrs ea) 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Atypical Development-<span class="requirement-ital">Select one</span>: PSYC 380, SLPA 150,  SPED 201 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Research Courses-<span class="requirement-ital">Select one</span>: ADPR 357, CRIM 251, PSYC 350,  SOCI 205 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Elective Course 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Emphasis Area <span class="requirement-ital">(Select one emphasis)</span>: 37-40</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Advertising &amp; Public Relations Emphasis 40</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ADPR 151, ADPR 221, ADPR 283 (3 hrs ea) 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span> ADPR 429, <span class="requirement-bold"></span>  ADPR 439, <span class="requirement-bold"></span>ADPR 489 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JOMC 100 1  </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JOMC 101, <span class="requirement-bold"></span>JOMC 486, JOMC 487 (3 hrs ea) 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span> JOMC 160, JOMC 161 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">  Select 15 hrs of approved electives  from one 12 hr optional area or from multiple areas; or from any ADPR, BRDC, JOMC or JOUR course. (At least 9 hrs must be chosen from  ADPR options above the 300 level).</span> 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">  <span class="requirement-underline">Account Services Area</span>: ADPR 329, ADPR 339, ADPR 360, ADPR 434, ADPR 481, ADPR 484</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">  <span class="requirement-underline">Creative/interactive Area</span>: ADPR 323, ADPR 329, ADPR 333, ADPR 339, ADPR 433, ADPR 447, ADPR 458, ADPR 459, ADPR 483, ADPR 484</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">  <span class="requirement-underline">Digital Communication Area</span>: ADPR 329, ADPR 339, ADPR 360, ADPR 434, ADPR 458, ADPR 459, ADPR 466, JOUR 304, JOUR 407</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">  <span class="requirement-underline">Public Relations Area</span>: ADPR 207, ADPR 329, ADPR 339, ADPR 417, ADPR 450, ADPR 451, ADPR 466, JOUR 201, JOUR 202</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">  <span class="requirement-underline">Sports Communication Area</span>: JOMC 150; and at least 3 hrs from Section A and 6 hrs from either Section A or Section B (12 hrs in this area may not include any course already  required for the major.) (Section A: ADPR 446, BRDC 375, JOUR 326 or a sports internship in ADPR, BRDC, or JOUR); (Section B: ADPR 151, ADPR 207, ADPR 283, ADPR 450,  ADPR 451, JOUR 201, JOUR 202)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">  If approved, all areas may further include the following: ADPR 491 or JOUR 491, ADPR 495 and ADPR 499H.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Broadcasting Emphasis 40</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">  JOMC 100 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JOMC 101, JOMC 160, JOMC 486, JOMC 487 (3 hrs ea) 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">  Select one  group from either <span style="text-decoration: underline;">News</span> <span class="requirement-underline">or</span> <span style="text-decoration: underline;">Production</span></span> 27</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4"><span class="requirement-underline requirement-bold">News</span><span class="requirement-bold">:</span> BRDC 369,  BRDC 370 (3 hrs ea), BRDC 472 (6 hrs); JOUR 202,  JOUR 304 (3 hrs ea); and 9 elective hours chosen from advertising &amp; public relations, broadcasting  or journalism. </p>

<p class="requirement-sec-4"><span class="requirement-underline requirement-bold">Production</span><span class="requirement-bold">:</span> BRDC 227, BRDC 228, BRDC 359, BRDC 360 (3 hrs ea), BRDC 462 (6 hrs); JOMC 161 (3 hrs); and 6 elective hours chosen from advertising &amp; public relations, broadcasting or journalism. </p>

<p class="requirement-sec-2">Journalism Emphasis 37</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JOMC 100 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JOMC 101, JOMC 160,  JOMC 486, JOMC 487 (3 hrs ea) 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JOUR 201, JOUR 202, JOUR 302, JOUR 304 (3 hrs ea) 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from</span>: JOUR  446,  JOUR 450,  JOUR 497 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">Electives chosen from advertising &amp; public relations, broadcasting and/or journalism 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 120-127</p>
<p class="title-1">ACE Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their advisor prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for CYAF courses.</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">All supporting and professional courses must be taken for a grade (not Pass/No Pass).</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>
<p class="title-1">Criminal History Background Check Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS) has the responsibility to ensure that our students who interact with children served by schools or other agencies meet a high level of personal, professional and ethical behavior. Students in non-teacher education programs who interact with pre-school or with school age youth, in pre-schools, schools or in a public agency setting, must complete an official criminal history background check approved by the CEHS vendor prior to participating in a field experience or internship. Students are responsible for the cost of criminal history background checks. If more than three years elapse after the initial background check is conducted, the College reserves the right to require completion of additional background checks. Eighteen months after the initial Criminal History Background Check, undergraduate students are required to complete the CEHS self-disclosure report. Graduate students will be required to complete the self-disclosure report at the same time as the initial background check is conducted and again eighteen months later.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students with felony or any misdemeanor charges or convictions as reported on the background check will be contacted by the College and may be required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Professional Experiences. This meeting will be held so that the student can receive guidance with respect to the impact of the charge or conviction on the student's future in the College and success in their profession. <span class="basic-text-bold">If any new charges or convictions are acquired after a background check, students are required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Professional Experiences within two weeks after the event occurs. Failure to disclose any new information concerning one's criminal history can lead to removal from the program.</span> Continued participation in school-based or community-based field experiences in the College will be based on the type and number of convictions, the recentness of their occurrence, and whether these violate the requirements of the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services and/or the Nebraska Department of Education. If the convictions are deemed to be serious in nature, students may be prohibited from participating in a field experience in a pre-school, school or public agency setting. The student may then be referred to the department chair for further disciplinary action.</p>
<p class="title-1">Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to criminal convictions, other non-criminal behaviors which: involve risks that are unacceptable for the children charged to their care; demonstrate a lack of professionalism and good judgment; and evidence a disregard for one’s personal reputation or the integrity of the College, may bring into question a student’s ability to be successful in their profession. Before engaging in such questionable behavior, students must consider how the College, the profession, an employer, or the community would perceive or evaluate the impact of that behavior. Students must be able to demonstrate that they are individuals of strong moral character who can make mature decisions for themselves and others. Therefore, the College of Education and Human Sciences is most interested in training students who show a high degree of moral character and the ability to act responsibly.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should the College, through the reasonable exercise of the judgment of its Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences, determine that a student’s individual behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons, the College of Education and Human Sciences reserves the right to deny entry to or dismiss such a student from any program. More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum or field experience, since the interests and safety of the children, and young people present in the practicum settings are paramount. The consequences of unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will differ depending upon the unique circumstances involved in each matter. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students' fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that safety in the field experience, the reputation of the College, and the best interest of the students, are all recognized and promoted.</p>
<p class="title-1">Appeal to the Dean</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences with respect to a criminal behavior or unprofessional behavior, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing, within ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student’s written appeal shall clearly explain the basis for the student’s appeal. The Dean will review the student’s basis for appeal, and is authorized, but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student’s written appeal. The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possibly, but in no case longer than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences a written decision which shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review within the University of Nebraska.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>