<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Combined Degree Programs 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="combined-degree-programs-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Combined Degree Programs</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Combined Degree Programs</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> BA or BS</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Christina Fielder</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="title-1">Combined Degree Program</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who want to combine their undergraduate degree courses in the College of Arts and Sciences with a professional program in one of the following: law, medicine, dentistry, or pharmacy, may follow a combined program that, if they are accepted to a professional program after three years (minimum 90 hours), leads to the bachelors degree at the end of four years and the professional degree at the completion of the professional program. With law, the combined course is six years. With medicine, dentistry, or pharmacy, the combined course is seven years.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The first year’s work in law, medicine, dentistry, or pharmacy in any accredited United States or Canadian college of law, medicine, dentistry, or pharmacy is accepted by the College of Arts and Sciences as the equivalent of the fourth year of work for the bachelors degree as the major, if the student has completed three years of college work before entering the professional program. In these three years of college work, minimum 90 hours, the student must also complete 30 hours in residence (see index for guide to rule on residency), fulfill all general education requirements (Achievement-Centered Education [ACE] and College Distribution Requirements), and complete one Plan A or two Plan B minors. For a BS degree, students must complete the 60 hour scientific base which is comprised of science and math courses.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Pre-Law students who demonstrate exceptional academic ability in three years of undergraduate study must request permission from the College of Arts and Sciences to participate in the combined degree program. For combined degree programs in medicine, dentistry and pharmacy no application to the College of Arts and Sciences is necessary, however, students are strongly encouraged to work closely with an academic adviser in the Arts &amp; Sciences Academic and Career Advising Center to be sure all requirements are met prior to matriculating to the professional program.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Admission to a professional program in law, medicine, dentistry, or pharmacy is not guaranteed at the time of undergraduate admission to the College of Arts and Sciences. The Combined Degree Program is only an option for students who apply and are accepted to a professional program in law, medicine, dentistry or pharmacy after the third year of undergraduate work.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>