<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Computer Engineering (Omaha) 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="computer-engineering-omaha-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Computer Engineering (Omaha)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Computer Engineering (Omaha)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 127</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.5 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Roger Sash</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"> <span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: </span>Jerry Hudgins, PKI 206C</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Alexander, Asgarpoor, Balkir, Boye, Chen, Choobineh, Hoffman, Hudgins, Ianno, Lu, Out, Perez, Sayood, Schubert, Sharif, Woollam, Wysocki </p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Ci, Jang, Nguyen, Peng, Qian, Qiao, Sash, Snyder, Vakilzadian, Varner, Yang</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors: </span>Argyropoulos, Franke-Schubert, Han, Qu</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice:</span> Bauer</p>

<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors of Practice:</span> Detloff, Gilmore</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturer:</span> McCreight</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Phone:</span> 402-554-2288</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">FAX:</span> 402-554-2289</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website:</span> engineering.unl.edu/ceen</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Email: </span>rsash1@unl.edu</p>
<p class="basic-text">The computer engineering program is administered by the Department of Electrical and Computer  Engineering  and the bachelor of science degree program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org.</p>
<p class="title-1">Mission</p>
<p class="basic-text">The mission of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) programs on the Omaha campus at the University of Nebraska is to develop and maintain programs of excellence in teaching and research which meet the educational needs of its constituents, which will support the state of Nebraska in its development as a leading center for high-technology computer/electronics/ telecommunications industry and which will support national needs for well-educated ECE professionals.</p>
<p class="title-1">Program Educational Objectives</p>
<p class="basic-text">The  Program Educational Objectives are a statement of what the graduates are doing or are capable of doing three to five years after graduation. The students in the computer engineering program receive a strong foundation in engineering science and design that will enable them to pursue productive careers in not only the computer engineering field, but can also be used as the foundation for careers in other areas such as business, management, and medicine. Typical industries in which the computer engineering graduate would be employed could include those microprocessor/embedded system design, digital design, hardware/software integration, and computer architecture and parallel processing.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Computer Engineering program prepares our graduates for their professional career with the objectives that within five years after graduation they will be:</p>
<ul>
<li>Employed in industry, academia or government</li>
<li>Successful engineers who develop innovative solutions for hardware and software design and construction of embedded systems, computer systems and other applications of modern computer engineering</li>
<li>Functioning on teams, exhibiting leadership, and making effective contributions to the benefit of their workplace and community</li>
<li>Engaging in postgraduate education or pursuing professional development for continuously renewing and expanding their knowledge base</li>
<li>Performing engineering practice in context that reflects awareness of the ethics of their profession, and of the impacts of their work on the profession and society at large</li>
</ul>
<p class="header-paragraph">These Program Educational Objectives were developed with input from the program’s educational objectives constituency consisting of employers (including CEEN Industry Advisory Board), graduates of the program, and faculty of the department.</p>
<p class="title-1">Student Outcomes</p>
<p class="basic-text">Student outcomes are those abilities that a graduate of the computer engineering program will have attained so that he/she can meet the educational objectives established for the program.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph-title">At the time of graduation, students in the ECE Computer Engineering program will have:</p>
<p class="list">1. an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering</p>
<p class="list">2. an ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data</p>
<p class="list">3. an ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability</p>
<p class="list">4. an ability to function on multidisciplinary teams</p>
<p class="list">5. an ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems</p>
<p class="list">6. an understanding of professional and ethical responsibility</p>
<p class="list">7. an ability to communicate effectively</p>
<p class="list">8. the broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context</p>
<p class="list">9. a recognition of the need for, and an ability to engage in life-long learning</p>
<p class="list">10. a knowledge of contemporary issues</p>
<p><span class="list">11. an ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering practice</span></p>
<p class="basic-text">These student outcomes have been developed with input from the program outcomes constituency group consisting of: Employers (including CEEN Industry Advisory Board), Graduates of the program, Faculty of the department, and Students in the program.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph basic-text">The individual holding this degree will have advanced knowledge in his or her field of engineering interest and in addition will have a university educational background involving mathematics, the physical sciences, and the humanities and social sciences. Completion of this curriculum will enable the graduate to enter employment in positions involving computer hardware design and applications, computer software design and development, microcomputer based applications, and computer networking. The program also leads to the preparation for graduate work in computer engineering, computer science or electrical engineering.</p>
<p class="title-1">Concentrations</p>
<p class="basic-text">The department offers several areas of concentrations so students can attain an in-depth study of a topic in computer engineering or electronics engineering. The computer engineering concentrations are:</p>
<p class="title-2">Advanced Digital Design</p>
<p class="basic-text">This area includes advanced digital design topics from both the circuit and system perspectives. Topics include the structure and analysis of digital integrated circuits, interface signal integrity, Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) design and synthesis, Very Large Scale Integration (VLSI) design, and advanced processor designs. Lab exercises provide hands-on experience with design tools and the design process.</p>
<p class="title-2">Multimedia Systems</p>
<p class="basic-text">This area includes topics on 1) the temporal and spectral analysis of digital signals and systems, the design of digital filters and systems, and advanced systems including multi-rate digital signal processing techniques; 2) the spatial and spectral analysis of digital images, the design of multi-dimensional digital filters and systems, and advanced theories and technologies in multimedia processing systems; and 3) the software and hardware system designs for real-time and offline machine vision and multimedia understanding systems.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR DEPARTMENT ADMISSION</p>
<p class="title-1">General Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Advisement</p>
<p class="basic-text">Upon entry into the program, each student will be assigned a faculty academic advisor. It is required that the student meet with the advisor prior to each class registration period and that all courses to be applied toward the degree be selected with the advice and approval of the advisor. Students are expected to have their academic records reviewed and obtain approval from the department prior to application to the University registrar for award of the degree in order to insure that all curricular requirements will be satisfied by the time of intended graduation.</p>
<p class="title-2">Curriculum</p>
<p class="basic-text">Because of the rapid developments in the field of computer engineering,  the curricular requirements are continually reviewed and upgraded to reflect technological advances. Curricular sequence and course descriptions contained herein are intended to serve as general guidelines. Contact the department for information on any changes to the requirements that are currently in effect but not listed in this catalog. Currently enrolled students are expected to modify their programs to take advantage of such revisions. Students who do not maintain continuous progress toward the degree through enrollment in applicable course work will be considered as new students upon reentering the computer or electronics engineering curricular sequence and will be subject to the requirements of the curriculum current at the time of their reentry. Certain courses may not be valid as prerequisites or as credit toward the degree after two academic years; the student’s academic advisor should be consulted regarding applicability.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The department maintains a high standard of excellence in meeting its objective of providing the student with extensive experience in the fields of computer engineering and electronics engineering. The development of both hardware and software and the knowledge of the interrelationship of these areas is enhanced through the extensive use of laboratory equipment. The applicable University bulletins and College academic policies must be followed to ensure that the student satisfies the campus general education requirements.</p>
<p class="title-2">Senior Thesis</p>
<p class="basic-text">The capstone senior thesis requirement provides a unique and challenging opportunity for the undergraduate student to demonstrate his/her ability to apply the knowledge gained in the course work sequence to the planning, design, execution, testing and reporting of a significant project in the applications of engineering principles. The initiative and responsibility expected of the student executing the senior thesis parallel the expectations of the employer of the program graduate.</p>
<p class="title-2">Electives</p>
<p class="basic-text">Computer engineering, electrical engineering and electronic engineering courses which are described in the catalog but are not shown as requirements in the semester sequences are offered as the need arises to provide co-interest areas wherein the students may broaden their background in the applications of computer engineering or electronics engineering. In addition, appropriate specified technical electives will be selected to augment the student’s particular area of interest. The applicability of transfer course work with engineering content toward credit in the curriculum is determined on a case-by-case basis by the department.</p>
<p class="title-2">Special Interest Areas</p>
<p class="basic-text">Opportunities are provided for the development of areas of special interest through enrollment in the Individual Study in Computer and Electronics Engineering courses which are offered at the freshman through senior level for the student who may wish to develop a topic under the guidance of a department faculty member. Enrollment is by permission after  approval of a written proposal. Special Topics in Computer and Electronics Engineering classes also are offered by the department as the need arises to cover topics needing emphasis as a result of the rapidly developing fields of computer engineering and electronics engineering. Academic advisors should be consulted regarding the particular topics to be covered and the necessary prerequisites for each offering of this course.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who expect to continue their education at the graduate level after the award of the baccalaureate degree should consult their advisor regarding course selections that would enhance that objective.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are encouraged to develop their professional and leadership potential through participation in student chapters of related professional organizations and in University extracurricular activities. Participation in the University Honors Program is encouraged for those who qualify.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Requirements for the Degree</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">First Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 103 Computer &amp; Electronics Engineering Fundamentals 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CSCE 155A Computer Science I <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CSCE 155E Computer Science I: Systems Engineering Focus 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGL 151 Writing: Rhetoric as Argument 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 106 Calculus I 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Second Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 106 Microprocessor Applications 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 225 Computer &amp; Electronics Engineering Seminar 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CSCE 156 Computer Science II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 107 Calculus II* 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 211 General Physics I 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 221 General Physics Lab I 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="asterisk">*Calculus II is a 5 credit course on the Omaha campus. Students taking calculus II on the Lincoln campus will need to obtain an additional one credit hour of math or science.</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Third Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 213 Electrical Circuits I 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 218 Electrical Circuits Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 221 Differential Equations 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">PHYS 212 General Physics II 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">COMM 109 Fundamentals of Human Communication 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fourth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 222 Electronic Circuits I 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 313 Switching Circuits Theory 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">JGEN 300 Technical Communications II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 208 Calculus III 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Fifth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 310 Digital Design &amp; Interfacing 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 332 Assembly Language Programming 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CSCE 310 Data Structures &amp; Algorithms 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 314  Linear Algebra  3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 380 Statistics &amp; Applications (STAT 380) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective SLO 5 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 17</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Sixth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 325 Communications Systems 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 433 Microprocessor System Design 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Conc/ENGR Electives 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective SLO 6 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 17</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Seventh Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 436 Embedded Microcontroller Design 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 496 Senior Thesis Proposal 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGR 469 Tech, Science &amp; Civ (UNO) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Conc/ENGR Electives 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Elective SLO 7 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-hours">Eighth Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CEEN 499 Senior Thesis 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Conc/ENGR Electives 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Electives SLO 8 &amp; 9 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 15</p>
<p class="asterisk">Students must complete one of the computer engineering concentrations.</p>
<p class="asterisk">Three hours of the engineering electives can be chosen from a list of approved non-CEEN courses.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Credit Hours Required 127</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">All course work must be of “C” grade level or higher to be credited toward graduation requirements or to be valid as a prerequisite for another course.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>