<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Dance 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="dance-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Dance</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Fine &amp; Performing Arts</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Dance</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Susan Levine Ourada</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professor and Coordinator: Susan Levine Ourada,</span><span class="generated-style"> 208 Mabel Lee Hall</span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">The dance major is designed to provide a comprehensive arts experience with emphasis on dance. It is appropriate for students who wish to develop performance and technique skills in dance, who are interested in dance as a fine art, and who wish to prepare to choreograph and teach dance. This program teaches the cultural, theatrical and performing aspects of dance, preparing dancers to participate in dance program concerts and department productions as well as community projects including collaborative works with professional artists. Students have opportunities to take professional master classes and to work with national and international guest choreographers.</span></p>
<p class="title-2"><span class="generated-style">Degree at a Glance</span></p>
<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">ACE Requirements 30</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Languages: Classical &amp; Modern 0-6</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from the list of “Approved Courses” found under “College Degree Requirements.”</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Library 110 1</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Dance Major Requirements 60</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Electives 23-29</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Total Hours Required for Graduation 120</span></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR DEPARTMENT ADMISSION</p>
<p class="basic-text">A performance audition is required for acceptance as a dance major or minor. Auditions are generally held in January and February. The Glenn Korff School of Music should be contacted for audition dates and other details.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Specific Major Requirements</span></p>
<p class="requirement-hours"><span class="generated-style"> </span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="generated-style">Dance Requirements 60</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Dance Technique 16</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">DANC 211 Ballet II 4</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">DANC 212 Modern Dance II 4</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">DANC 312 Modern Dance III 4</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">DANC 412 Modern Dance IV 4</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Dance Theory and History 15</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">DANC 159 Introduction to History of Dance 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">DANC 228 Music for Dance 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">DANC 338 Dance Kinesiology &amp; Injury Prevention 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">DANC 349 History of Dance: 20th Century &amp; Beyond 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">DANC 448 Pedagogy 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Dance Composition and Performance 10</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">DANC 300 Dance Composition 6</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">DANC 260/DANC 460 Repertory, Improvisation &amp; Performance </span><span class="requirement-ital">(1 cr each semester)</span><span class="generated-style"> 4</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">Arts Electives 19</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">Art and Art History 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">Music 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">Theatre 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-ledr"><span class="generated-style">Other Arts Electives, including Dance 10</span></p>
<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Minor Requirements</span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="generated-style">Minors are allowed, but not required, with the dance major.</span></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Prerequisite Requirements/Advancement in Major </span></p>
<p class="basic-text">All entering dance majors must register for 200-level technique courses. It is recommended that all majors enroll for both ballet and modern dance every semester. All majors should participate in a performance each semester.</p>
<p class="title-1"><span class="generated-style">Grade Rules </span></p>
<ul>
<li><span class="generated-style">All courses taken to fulfill dance major or minor requirements must be taken for a grade (except those only offered as Pass/No Pass). </span></li>
<li><span class="generated-style">Students must earn grades of C or better in these courses. Any course in which a student earns a grade of C- or below must be repeated in order to count toward the requirement.</span></li>
</ul>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students must audition for dance faculty for acceptance as a minor.</p>
<p class="title-3">Plan A Minor in Dance—18 credits</p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-ital"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">DANC 159 Introduction to History of Dance 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">DANC 338 Dance Kinesiology &amp; Injury Prevention 3</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">DANC 111 Ballet I 2</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">DANC 112 Modern Dance I 2</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">DANC 211 Ballet II 2</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">DANC 212 Modern Dance II 4</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="generated-style">DANC 312 Modern Dance III 2</span></p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>