<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Early Childhood Education in a Mobile Society 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="early-childhood-education-in-a-mobile-society-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Early Childhood Education in a Mobile Society</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Early Childhood Education in a Mobile Society</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Valerie Wiemeyer</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Early Childhood Education in a Mobile Society (ECEMS) will prepare you to work in early childhood settings with young children whose family members are highly mobile. When you complete the program, you will be qualified to work in a variety of programs that offer early care and education for children birth to age 8 and particularly those with highly mobile populations such as military installations.</p>
<p class="basic-text">This is an online program offered as part of the Great Plains Interactive Distance Education Alliance (IDEA). The Great Plains IDEA is a consortium of universities collaborating in the delivery of programs. As a student in this program, you will enroll for all your coursework through UNL and you will graduate from UNL, but your online courses will be taught by faculty at each of the participating universities. Core courses (51 credits; identified under the heading ECEMS Requirements below) in this program are subject to differential tuition at the common Great Plains IDEA rate. For 2014-2015, this rate is $370 per credit hour. The Great Plains IDEA rate does not apply to tuition and fees for any remaining credit hours needed to complete the bachelors degree (i.e., ACE requirements, minor and elective requirements).</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Endorsement Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Degree at a Glance</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Requirements 36</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 1. Any ACE 1 Course (Suggested online courses: JGEN 200, JGEN 220, ENGL 151)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 2. Any ACE 2 Course (Suggested online course: ALEC 102)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 3. Any ACE 3 Course (Suggested online courses: MATH 104, CSCE 101, ECON 215)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 4. Any ACE 4 Course (Suggested online courses: AGRI 115,  AGRO 131, ENTO 131,GEOL 100, GEOL 125)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 5. Any ACE 5 Course (Suggested online courses:  GPSP 377, ENGL 215, )</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 6. Any ACE 6 Course (Suggested online courses: ANTH 110, ANTH 212, CRIM 101, ECON 211, SOCI 209, SOCI 225, CYAF 160)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 7. Any ACE 7 Course</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 8. Any ACE 8 Course (Suggested online courses: ECON 211, CYAF 150)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 9. Any ACE 9 Course (Suggested online courses: CYAF 495,ANTH 110, GEOL 125, GPSP 377, GPSP 378, POLS 160, SOCI 200, SOCI 217, SOCI 225, ECON 321, ENGL 215,  WMNS 101, WMNS 377)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 10. CYAF 410 ECEMS: Practicum III (6 CR.)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECEMS Requirements 51</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-bold">NOTE:</span> Students must be admitted into the ECEMS program to take these courses. Admission requirements: 30 credit hours completed, 2.5 cumulative GPA.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 203 ECEMS: Child Development, Birth to 3 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 204 ECEMS: Child Development, 4 to 8 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 205 ECEMS: Guidance &amp; Classroom Environments 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 306 ECEMS: Professional Development 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 307 ECEMS: Practicum I (Prereqs: CYAF 203, 204, 205, 306) 3</p>

<p>CYAF 301 ECEMS: Assessing Young Children and Their Environments to Enhance Development Prereq: (Practicum 1) 3</p>
<p>CYAF 302 ECEMS: Development of Curriculum for Children ages Birth to 3 (Prereq: Pracicum 1) 3</p>
<p>CYAF 303 ECEMS: Development of Curriculum for Children ages 4 to 8 (Prereq: Practicu 3</p>
<p>CYAF 304 ECEMS: Young Children with Special Needs (Prereq: CYAF 307) 3</p>
<p>CYAF 305 ECEMS: Practicum II (Prereq: CYAF 307) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 405 ECEMS: Administration &amp; Supervision in Early Childhood Settings 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 406 ECEMS: Diversity in the Lives of Young Children &amp; Families 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 407 ECEMS: Health, Safety, &amp; Nutrition 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 408 ECEMS: Technology &amp; Young Children 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 409 ECEMS: Working with Families 3</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 410 Practicum III P/NP (Prereq: Practicum II) 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Electives/Minor: 33</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 120</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for CYAF courses. All CYAF courses must be taken for a grade (not Pass/No Pass).</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>
<p class="title-1">Criminal History Background Check</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS)has the responsibility to ensure that our students who interact with children served by schools or other agencies meet a high level of personal, professional and ethical behavior. Nebraska Department of Education policy requires that a person with any felony conviction or a misdemeanor conviction involving assault, abuse, neglect, or sexual misconduct shall not be allowed to participate in pre-student teaching laboratory and classroom experiences or student teach without approval of the State Board of Education. In addition, the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services standards apply to all individuals working in any capacity with pre-school children who are not yet in kindergarten. To comply with these two sets of standards, the College of Education and Human Sciences will require each student in a teacher education program to complete two formal reviews of their criminal history, which is conducted by the approved CEHS vendor. The first criminal history background check will be completed during the first semester of the student's entry into the College. This must be completed before the first field experience. The second criminal history background check will take place as part of the student teaching application process, culminating experience, or internship. Students are responsible for the cost of the criminal history background checks. If more than three years elapse after the initial background check is conducted, the College reserves the right to require completion of additional background checks. Eighteen months after the initial Criminal History Background Check, undergraduate students are required to complete the CEHS self-disclosure report. Graduate students will be required to complete the self-disclosure report at the same time as the initial background check is conducted and again eighteen months later.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students with any felony or any misdemeanor charges or convictions, as reported on the background check, will be contacted by the College an may be required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Professional Experiences. This meeting will be held so that the student can receive guidance with respect to the impact of the charge or conviction on the student's future in the College and the profession of education. <strong>If any new charges or convictions are acquired after any background check, students are required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Professional Experiences within two weeks after the event occurs. Failure to disclose any new information concerning one's criminal history can lead to removal from the program.</strong> A student's ability to continue to participate in any teacher education program in the College will be based on the type and number of convictions, the recentness of their occurrence, and whether these violate the standards of the Nebraska Department of Education and/or the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services. The standards that the College sets for its students may be more stringent than the rules of the Nebraska Department of Education or the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services. The consequences of one conviction compared to another may vary significantly, depending upon the facts underlying the convictions.</p>
<p class="title-1">Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to criminal convictions, other non-criminal behaviors which: involve risks that are unacceptable for future teachers and the children charged to their care; demonstrate a lack of professionalism and good judgement; and evidence a disregard for one's personal reputation, the integrity of the College and the teaching profession, may bring into question a student's ability to be successful in an education career. Before engaging in such questionable behavior, students must consider how the College, the profession, educational employer, parents of school-aged children, and the community would perceive or evaluate the impact of that behavior with respect to the students' ability to serve children. Teaching is a profession that requires its potential candidates to be individuals of the highest integrity. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students' fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that safety in the classroom, the reputation of the College, and the best interest of the student, are all recognized and promoted. Should the College, through reasonable exercise of the judgement of its Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences, determine that a student's individual behavior represents a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons and others in the educational community, the College of Education and Human Sciences may deny entry to or dismiss such a students from any program which leads to certification or to service of children in a community agency. More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum, pre-practicum, student teaching or similar field experience, since the interests and safety of the children and young people present in the classroom, schools and other practicum settings are paramount. Students will be expected to meet Nebraska standards for personal and professional fitness, as described in the Nebraska Application for Teacher Certification. The consequences for unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will differ given the unique circumstances involved in each matter.</p>
<p class="title-2">Appeal to the Dean</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences with respect to a criminal behavior or unprofessional behavior, the student may appeal tot he Dean of the College, in writing, within ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student's written appeal shall clearly explain the basis for the appeal. The Dean will review the student's basis for appeal and is authorized but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student's written appeal. The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possible, but no later than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the student and the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences a written decision, which shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review within the University of Nebraska.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>