<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Economics (CBA) 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="economics-cba-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Economics (CBA)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Business Administration</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Economics (CBA)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Business Administration</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 hours for degree (21 hours for the major)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.5 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> F. Gregory Hayden</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Scott M. Fuess, Jr., 340 CBA</span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Allgood, Anderson, Cushing, Edwards, Fuess, Hayden, May, Rosenbaum, Schmidt, van den Berg, Walstad</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Giertz, McGarvey, Thompson</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Kim</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor of Practice:</span> Miller, Davidson</p>

<p>Economic analysis is useful in many decisions made by individuals, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and governments. In addition to opportunities in teaching, economists are employed in many branches of government and on the staffs of corporations in manufacturing, insurance, banking, brokerage, and financial services. Economists often serve as consultants, either individually or in consulting firms. Todays economists deal with problems ranging from to include monetary and fiscal policy, monopoly and competition, environmental improvement, labor relations, regional development, urban reconstruction, economic development and international business and finance. Economics is also a popular major for students planning to enter professional and graduate programs, particularly in law, foreign service, labor relations, or business administration, or policy analysis. </p>


<p>COURSES REGULARLY OFFERED</p>
<p>Fall and Spring Semesters: Courses regularly offered in Fall and Spring semesters by the Department of Economics are as follows: </p>
<p>ECON 200 Economic Essentials and Issues (Qualifies as ACE 6, 8)</p>
<p>ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics (Qualifies as ACE 6, 8)</p>
<p>ECON 211H Honors: Principles of Macroeconomics (Qualifies as ACE 6, 8)</p>
<p>ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics (Qualifies as ACE 6, 8)</p>
<p>ECON 212H Honors: Principles of Microeconomics (Qualifies as ACE 6, 8)</p>
<p>ECON 215 Statistics (Qualifies as ACE 3)</p>
<p>ECON 215H Honors: Statistics (Qualifies as ACE 3) </p>
<p>ECON 311 Intermediate Macroeconomics</p>
<p>ECON 312 Intermediate Microeconomics</p>
<p>ECON 321 Introduction to International Economics (Qualifies as ACE 9)</p>
<p>ECON 340 Introduction to Urban-Regional Economics</p>
<p>ECON 365 Financial Institutions and Markets</p>
<p>ECON 399 Independent Study</p>
<p>ECON 399H Honors Independent Study</p>
<p>ECON 417 Introductory Econometrics</p>
<p>ECON 421 International Trade</p>
<p>ECON 422 International Finance</p>
<p>ECON 423 Economics of Less Developed Countries</p>
<p>ECON 440 Regional Development</p>
<p>ECON 445 Gender Economics and Social Provisioning</p>
<p>ECON 457 19th Century US Economic History</p>
<p>ECON 458 20th Century US Economic History (Qualifies as ACE 10)</p>
<p>ECON 466/467 Pro-seminar in International Relations I and II</p>
<p>ECON 471 Public Finance</p>
<p>ECON 472 Efficiency in Government</p>
<p>ECON 481 Economics of Labor Market (Qualifies as ACE 10) </p>
<p>ECON 482 Labor in the National Economy (Qualifies as ACE 10)</p>
<p>ECON 499 Independent Study</p>
<p>ECON 499H Honors Thesis</p>

<p>Summer Semesters: Courses regularly offered in Summer semesters by the Department of Economics are as follows:</p>
<p>ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics (Qualifies as ACE 6, 8)</p>
<p>ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics (Qualifies as ACE 6, 8)</p>
<p>ECON 215 Statistics (Qualifies as ACE 3)</p>
<p>ECON 311 Intermediate Macroeconomics</p>
<p>ECON 312 Intermediate Microeconomics</p>
<p>Other courses will be occasionally offered in Summer semesters.</p>

<p>COURSES AVAILABLE FOR TRANSFER CREDIT</p>

<p>The courses listed above are available to be considered for transfer credit if taken at a different institution. Courses which the Department of Economics does not regularly offer as classes but are also available to be considered for transfer credit if taken at a different institution are as follows:</p>
<p>ECON 210 Introduction to Economics</p>
<p>ECON 303 An Introduction to Money and Banking</p>
<p>ECON 322 Introduction to Development Economics</p>
<p>ECON 323 The Economic Development of Latin America</p>
<p>ECON 371 Elements of Public Finance</p>
<p>ECON 375 Women and Work in USA History</p>
<p>ECON 381 Introduction to Labor Economics</p>
<p>ECON 388 Comparative Economic Systems</p>
<p>ECON 389 Current Economic Issues</p>
<p>ECON 403 Money and the Financial System</p>
<p>ECON 404 Current Issues in Monetary Economics</p>
<p>ECON 409 Applied Public Policy Analysis</p>
<p>ECON 416 Social Insurance</p>
<p>ECON 416 Statistics for Decision Making</p>
<p>ECON 419 Topics in Applied Research</p>
<p>ECON 426 Government Intervention in Markets</p>
<p>ECON 433 History of Economic Thought</p>
<p>ECON 435 Market Competition</p>
<p>ECON 442 Regional Analysis</p>
<p>ECON 450 Economics for Teachers</p>
<p>ECON 451 Economics Issues for Teachers</p>
<p>ECON 475 Theory and Analysis of Institutional Economics</p>
<p>ECON 485 The Regulatory Environment for Employment and Labor </p>
<p>ECON 487 Economies in Transition </p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Core Requirements</p>
<ul>
<li>In addition to the College Degree Requirements, students will complete 21 hours of course work for the major.</li>
<li>All students, regardless of their major or interests in the College will take MATH 104 or equivalent, ECON 211, ECON 212, and ECON 215 as part of the Business Core Foundation requirements.</li>
<li>NONE of these courses may be used to count toward the major, and cannot be taken Pass/No Pass.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Business Core Advanced Major (BCA-M)</p>
<ul>
<li>In addition to the 9 general credit-hours of the Business Core Foundation Course requirements (ECON 211, ECON 212 and ECON 215), an economics major must complete 21 credit hours of economics.</li>
<li><span class="basic-text-bold">All courses for the major, with the exception of ECON 399, must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass).</span> If ECON 399 is taken as Pass/No Pass, it may only be used as an elective.</li>
<li>Completion of ECON 311 and ECON 312 is recommended before enrolling in additional 300/400-level economics course work.</li>
</ul>
<p class="header-paragraph">The requirements for the major include:</p>
<p class="list-indent">ECON 311 Intermediate Macroeconomics (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="list-indent">ECON 312 Intermediate Microeconomics (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="list-indent">Economics 300- or 400-level course (6 hrs)</p>
<p class="list-indent">Economics 400-level courses (9 hrs)</p>
<p class="list-indent"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Total (21 hrs)</span></p>
<p class="title-2">Recommended Order of Studies</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students must first complete all Core courses including MATH 104, ECON 211, ECON 212 and ECON 215. We strongly recommend students complete the intermediate theory sequence, ECON 311 and ECON 312, prior to completing elective 300- and 400-level classes.</p>
<p class="title-1"><span class="list-ital"></span><span class="list-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="list-ital"></span><span class="list-ital"></span></p>
<p class="title-3">Research and Thesis</p>
<p class="basic-text">Seminar and research courses in specific fields are listed in their respective divisions.</p>
<p class="list">ECON 189H University Honors Seminar</p>
<p class="list">ECON 198 Freshman Seminar</p>
<p class="list">ECON 399 Independent Study</p>
<p class="list">ECON 399H Honors: Independent Study</p>
<p class="list">ECON 499H Honors Thesis</p>

<p>This department participates in the program for Global Studies and UCARE. For a full description of these programs, see Global Studies and UCARE. </p>

<p class="title-1">Graduate Work</p>
<p class="basic-text">The advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy are offered. For details of these programs see the Graduate Studies Bulletin. Refer to the Graduate Studies Bulletin for 800/900 level courses.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Same as College grade rules.</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">All courses for the major, with the exception of ECON 399, must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass). If ECON 399 is taken as Pass/No Pass, it may only be used as an elective.</p>
<p class="title-2">GPA Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">Same as College GPA requirements.</p>
<p class="title-1">Course Level Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">Completion of ECON 311 and ECON 312 is recommended before taking other 300/400-level economics courses.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="title-1">Economics Minor Requirements</p>
<ul>
<li>The economics minor offered through CBA is available to <span class="basic-text-bold">College of Business Administration students only</span>. The college requires that 75% of the course work for the minor will be completed at UNL.</li>
<li>Economics course work used for this minor <span class="basic-text-bold">cannot</span> be double counted toward business core foundation (BCF), intermediate (BCI), or advanced-major (BCA-M; BCA-A) degree requirements, for another major, nor any other business minor requirements (with the exception of business electives).</li>
<li>Business students choosing to minor in economics must follow the CBA economics minor requirements.</li>
<li>College of Arts and Sciences (ASC) students interested in completing an economics minor must refer to the ASC section for the ASC economics major/minor.</li>
</ul>
<p class="header-paragraph">To fulfill the requirements for an economics minor, CBA students must complete:</p>
<ul>
<li>Nine (9) graded hours of 300/400-level economics course work</li>
<li>All course work must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass)</li>
</ul>
<p class="header-paragraph">Economics Minor Requirements for Arts and Science economics major:</p>
<ul>
<li>If majoring in economics through the College of Arts and Sciences, please see economics minor for ASC for specific requirements.</li>
</ul>
<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>
<p class="basic-text">All students enrolling in CBA courses are required to meet the prerequisites listed for each course, including any specific grade or GPA requirement, to include all requirements for enrollment in most 300- or 400-level economics courses.</p>
<p class="basic-text">ECON 211 and ECON 212 Macro- and Microeconomics are ACE 6 and ACE 8 approved course work and have been double counted to fulfill both the ACE requirement of the University (for ACE 6 and 8) and the Colleges Business Core Foundation (BCF) requirements.</p>
<p class="basic-text">ECON 215 Statistics is an approved ACE 3 course and may be used to fulfill the ACE 3 requirement of the University.</p>
<p class="basic-text">ECON 321 Introduction to International Economics is an approved ACE 9 course and while most students will complete ACE 9 during the freshman and sophomore year with other course work, transfer and upper-class students meeting the prerequisite, may wish to take this class, counting it for both an NBR 6 (ACE 9) and as a course for the Business Core Advanced Major (MCAM) in economics. It also may be used to fulfill the International Business Course Requirement (IBCR), allowing it to be counted three ways.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Regardless of its double or triple counting, there are only 3 hours of credit awarded and students must still meet the 120 hour requirement for graduation.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>