<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Economics (ASC) 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="economics-asc-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Economics (ASC)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Economics (ASC)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> F. Gregory Hayden</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Scott M. Fuess, Jr.,</span> 340 College of Business Administration Building</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Allgood, Anderson, Cushing, Edwards, Fuess, Hayden, May, Rosenbaum, Schmidt, van den Berg, Walstad</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Giertz, McGarvey, Thompson</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professor:</span> Kim</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors of Practice:</span> Miller, Davidson</p>

<p>Economic analysis is useful in many decisions made by individuals, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and governments. In addition to opportunities in teaching, economists are employed in many branches of government and on the staffs of corporations in manufacturing, insurance, banking, brokerage, and financial services. Economists often serve as consultants, either individually or in consulting firms. Todays economists deal with problems ranging from to include monetary and fiscal policy, monopoly and competition, environmental improvement, labor relations, regional development, urban reconstruction, economic development and international business and finance. Economics is also a popular major for students planning to enter professional and graduate programs, particularly in law, foreign service, labor relations, or business administration, or policy analysis. </p>

<p class="title-2">Courses Regularly Offered</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Fall and Spring Semesters:</span> Courses regularly offered in Fall and Spring semesters by the Department of Economics are as follows: </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 200 Economic Essentials &amp; Issues <span class="requirement-ital">(Qualifies as ACE 6, 8)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics <span class="requirement-ital">(Qualifies as ACE 6, 8)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 211H Honors: Principles of Macroeconomics <span class="requirement-ital">(Qualifies as ACE 6, 8)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics <span class="requirement-ital">(Qualifies as ACE 6, 8)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 212H Honors: Principles of Microeconomics <span class="requirement-ital">(Qualifies as ACE 6, 8)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 215 Statistics <span class="requirement-ital">(Qualifies as ACE 3)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 215H Honors: Statistics <span class="requirement-ital">(Qualifies as ACE 3) </span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 311 Intermediate Macroeconomics</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 312 Intermediate Microeconomics</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 321 Introduction to International Economics <span class="requirement-ital">(Qualifies as ACE 9)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 340 Introduction to Urban-Regional Economics</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 365 Financial Institutions &amp; Markets</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 399 Independent Study</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 399H Honors Independent Study</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 417 Introductory Econometrics</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 421 International Trade</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 422 International Finance</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 423 Economics of Less Developed Countries</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 440 Regional Development</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 445 Gender Economics &amp; Social Provisioning</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 457 19th Century U.S. Economic History</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 458 20th Century U.S. Economic History</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 466 &amp; ECON 467 Pro-seminar in International Relations I &amp; II</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 471 Public Finance</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 472 Efficiency in Government</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 481 Economics of Labor Market <span class="requirement-ital">(Qualifies as ACE 10) </span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 482 Labor in the National Economy <span class="requirement-ital">(Qualifies as ACE 10)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 499 Independent Study</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 499H Honors Thesis</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Summer Semesters:</span> Courses regularly offered in Summer semesters by the Department of Economics are as follows:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics <span class="requirement-ital">(Qualifies as ACE 6, 8)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics <span class="requirement-ital">(Qualifies as ACE 6, 8)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 215 Statistics <span class="requirement-ital">(Qualifies as ACE 3)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 311 Intermediate Macroeconomics</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 312 Intermediate Microeconomics</p>
<p>Other courses will be occasionally offered in Summer semesters.</p>
<p>Courses Available for Transfer Credit</p>
<p>The courses listed above are available to be considered for transfer credit if taken at a different institution. Courses which the Department of Economics does not regularly offer as classes but are also available to be considered for transfer credit if taken at a different institution are as follows:</p>
<p>ECON 210 Introduction to Economics</p>
<p>ECON 303 An Introduction to Money &amp; Banking</p>
<p>ECON 322 Introduction to Development Economics</p>
<p>ECON 323 The Economic Development of Latin America</p>
<p>ECON 371 Elements of Public Finance</p>
<p>ECON 375 Women &amp; Work in U.S.A. History</p>
<p>ECON 381 Introduction to Labor Economics</p>
<p>ECON 388 Comparative Economic Systems</p>
<p>ECON 389 Current Economic Issues</p>
<p>ECON 403 Money &amp; the Financial System</p>
<p>ECON 404 Current Issues in Monetary Economics</p>
<p>ECON 409 Applied Public Policy Analysis</p>
<p>ECON 416 Social Insurance</p>
<p>ECON 416 Statistics for Decision Making</p>
<p>ECON 419 Topics in Applied Research</p>
<p>ECON 426 Government Intervention in Markets</p>
<p>ECON 433 History of Economic Thought</p>
<p>ECON 435 Market Competition</p>
<p>ECON 442 Regional Analysis</p>
<p>ECON 450 Economics for Teachers</p>
<p>ECON 451 Economics Issues for Teachers</p>
<p>ECON 475 Theory &amp; Analysis of Institutional Economics</p>
<p>ECON 485 The Regulatory Environment for Employment &amp; Labor </p>
<p>ECON 487 Economies in Transition </p>
<p><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span></p>
<ul></ul>
<p class="header-paragraph">In planning a program of studies, students should consult a faculty adviser or talk to any member of the economics faculty who would be glad to make suggestions about complementary courses.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Many economics courses also satisfy ACE requirements, (see Other.)</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text-no-indent">An economics major must complete 30 credit hours of economics. These 30 hours must include:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 212 Principles of Microeconomics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 215 Statistics* 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 311 Intermediate Macroeconomics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ECON 312 Intermediate Microeconomics 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Economics 300- or 400-level courses 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Economics 400-level courses 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 30</p>
<p class="asterisk">*<span class="basic-text-bold">NOTE</span> for economics majors: STAT 218 may be substituted for ECON 215 if STAT 218 was completed before declaring economics as a major; otherwise student must take ECON 215.</p>
<p class="title-1">Track/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text"><em></em><em></em></p>
<p class="title-3">Research and Thesis</p>
<p class="list">Seminar and research courses in specific fields are listed in their respective divisions.</p>
<p class="list">ECON 189H University Honors Seminar</p>
<p class="list">ECON 198 Freshman Seminar</p>
<p class="list">ECON 399 Independent Study</p>
<p class="list">ECON 399H Honors: Independent Study</p>
<p class="list">ECON 499H Honors Thesis</p>

<p>This department participates in the program for Global Studies and UCARE. For a full description of these programs, see Global Studies and UCARE. </p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> The advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy are offered. For details of these programs see the Graduate Studies Bulletin. Refer to the Graduate Studies Bulletin for 800/900-level courses.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are required to complete ECON 211, ECON 212, and ECON 215 before completing additional required economics course work. The completion of BSAD 150 and MATH 104 are required prior to enrollment in ECON 215. We strongly recommend students complete the intermediate theory sequence, ECON 311 and ECON 312, prior to completing elective 300 and 400 level classes.</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">All courses for the major, with the exception of ECON 399, must be taken for a grade (no Pass/No Pass). If ECON 399 is taken as Pass/No Pass, it may only be used as an elective.</p>
<p class="title-2">Course Level Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">Completion of ECON 311 and ECON 312 is recommended before taking other 300/400-level economics courses.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A:</span> 18 hours of economics course work</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan B:</span> 12 hours of economics course work</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>
<p class="basic-text">All students are required to meet the prerequisites listed for each course, including any specific grade or GPA requirement, to include all requirements for enrollment in 300- or 400-level economics courses.</p>
<p class="basic-text">ECON 211 and ECON 212 Macro- and Microeconomics are ACE 6 and ACE 8 approved course work.</p>
<p class="basic-text">ECON 215 Statistics is an approved ACE 3 course and may be used to fulfill the ACE 3 requirement of the University.</p>
<p class="basic-text">ECON 321 Introduction to International Economics is an approved ACE 9 course and while most students will complete ACE 9 during the freshman and sophomore year with other course work, transfer and upper-class students meeting the prerequisite, may wish to take this class.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>