<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Environmental Studies (ASC) 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="environmental-studies-asc-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Environmental Studies (ASC)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Environmental Studies (ASC)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> A&amp;S Advising Center</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Website:</span> esp.unl.edu</p>
<p class="faculty-list">The environmental studies major is designed for students who want to make a difference and contribute to solving environmental challenges on a local to global scale. Solutions to challenges such as climate change, pollution, and resource conservation require individuals who have a broad-based knowledge in the natural and social sciences, as well as strength in a specific discipline. The environmental studies major will provide the knowledge and skills needed for students to work across disciplines and to be competitive in the job market.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>The Environmental Studies program uses a holistic approach and a framework of sustainability. This framework recognizes the necessity of meeting current resource needs without compromising the environment or the ability of future generations to meet their needs.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may select either a BS or BA degree through the College of Arts and Sciences. The degree program consists of four required components:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Environmental studies core courses introduce students to the major (ENVR 101) and provide a foundation in the scientific and human dimensions of environmental challenges (ENVR 201 and ENVR 249). Students will have the opportunity to work with individuals and organizations involved in environmental challenges within the community (ENVR 319). The required internship course (ENVR 495) provides the opportunity to gain work experience related to academic and career objectives. The “capstone” senior thesis series (ENVR 499A and ENVR 499B) provides an opportunity to complete a scholarly creative or research product.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. General collateral courses in Earth and Environmental Systems, Human Dimensions, and Economics and Policy: Earth and environmental systems courses provide the opportunity to explore Earth’s four major spheres (land, water, living things, air) and the influence humans have had on their variability over space and through time. Human dimensions courses allow an exploration of human factors driving environmental change: law, politics, ethics, human behavior, cultural diversity, decision-making, and communication. Economics and Policy courses provide an additional lens to view environmental challenges. In addition, students will use and apply relevant research methods, tools, and technologies to address environmental challenges in an ethical manner.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Ancillary requirements in natural sciences (biology, chemistry and physics), mathematics, and statistics.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Minor/Emphasis area courses. To provide depth within a particular discipline, completion of a Plan A minor or double major is required. The minor/double major can be chosen from: anthropology, biology, chemistry, communication studies, english, geography, geology, meteorology-climatology, political science, psychology, or sociology. If completing a minor, selection of additional upper level courses within the discipline are recommended.</p>
<p class="faculty-list">Students interested in majoring in environmental studies through the College of Arts and Sciences are advised to make an initial appointment with the program or academic advisor.</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"></span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;"></span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;"><span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"></span><span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"></span></span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;"><span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"></span><span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"></span><span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"></span></span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;"></span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;"><span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"></span><span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"></span><span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"></span><span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"></span></span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 107%; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;"></span></p>

<div style="width: 1px; height: 1px; overflow: hidden; position: fixed; top: 10px; left: 10px;">
<p class="basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">The environmental studies major is designed for students who want to make a difference and contribute to solving environmental challenges on a local to global scale. Solutions to challenges such as climate change, pollution, and resource conservation require individuals who have a broad-based knowledge in the natural and social sciences, as well as strength in a specific discipline. The environmental studies major will provide the knowledge and skills needed for students to work across disciplines and to be competitive in the job market.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>The Environmental Studies program uses a holistic approach and a framework of sustainability. This framework recognizes the necessity of meeting current resource needs without compromising the environment or the ability of future generations to meet their needs. </span></p>
<p class="basic-text"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">Students may select either a BS or BA degree through the College of Arts and Sciences. The degree program consists of four required components:</span></p>
<p class="numbered-list"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">1. Environmental studies core courses introduce students to the major (ENVR 101) and provide a foundation in the scientific and human dimensions of environmental challenges (ENVR 201 and ENVR 249). Students will have the opportunity to work with individuals and organizations involved in environmental challenges within the community (ENVR 319).<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>The required internship course (ENVR 495) provides the opportunity to gain work experience related to academic and career objectives. The “capstone” senior thesis series (ENVR 499A and ENVR 499B) provides an opportunity to complete a scholarly creative or research product.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span></span></p>
<p class="numbered-list"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">2. General collateral courses in Earth and Environmental Systems, Human Dimensions, and Economics and Policy:<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>Earth and environmental systems courses provide the opportunity to explore Earth’s four major spheres (land, water, living things, air) and the influence humans have had on their variability over space and through time. Human dimensions courses allow an exploration of human factors driving environmental change: <span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>law, politics, ethics, human behavior, cultural diversity, decision-making, and communication. Economics and Policy courses provide an additional lens to view environmental challenges.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>In addition, students will use and apply relevant research methods, tools, and technologies to address environmental challenges in an ethical manner.</span></p>
<p class="numbered-list"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">3. Ancillary requirements in natural sciences (biology, chemistry and physics), mathematics, and statistics.</span></p>
<p class="numbered-list"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin;">4.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>Minor/Emphasis area courses.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>To provide depth within a particular discipline, completion of a Plan A minor or double major is required.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>The minor/double major can be chosen from: anthropology, biology, chemistry, communication studies, english, geography, geology, meteorology-climatology, political science, psychology, or sociology.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>If completing a minor, selection of additional upper level courses within the discipline are recommended.</span></p>
<span style="font-size: 11.0pt; line-height: 107%; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-hansi-theme-font: minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Times New Roman'; mso-bidi-theme-font: minor-bidi; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;">Students interested in majoring in environmental studies through the College of Arts and Sciences are advised to make an initial appointment with the program or academic adviser. </span></div>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1"><strong></strong></p>
<p class="title-1">Core Requirements</p>
<p class="title-3">Required Courses (13 hours)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENVR 101 Environmental Studies Orientation (1 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENVR 201 Science, Systems, Environment &amp; Sustainability (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENVR 249 Individual &amp; Cultural Perspectives on the Environment (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENVR 319 Environmental Engagement &amp; the Community (2 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENVR 495 Internship in Environmental Studies (1 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENVR 499A Environmental Studies Senior Thesis I (1 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENVR 499B Environmental Studies Senior Thesis II (2 cr)<span class="requirement-ital"></span></p>
<ul>
<li>ENVR 499A &amp; 499B are the capstone courses for environmental studies majors.</li>
<li>ENVR 499H (3 cr) is the capstone course for UNL Honors Students.</li>
</ul>

<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-1">Earth and Environmental Systems (BS &amp; BA Degrees) 20-23</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-2">Ecology (<span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span><span class="requirement-ital">)</span> 3-4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 220 Principles of Ecology (NRES 220) (3 cr) &amp; BIOS 222 Ecology Lab (NRES 222) (1 cr) <span class="requirement-ital">(Recommended)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 232 Ecological Issues in the Great Plains (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 207 Ecology &amp; Evolution (4 cr)</p>


<p class="requirement-sec-2">Soil 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">SOIL 153 Soil Resources (AGRO 153/HORT 153) (4 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Climate (<span class="requirement-ital">Select one cours</span>e<span class="requirement-ital"> from:</span>) 3-4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 104 Climate in Crisis (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">METR 100 Weather &amp; Climate (4 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">METR 180 Environment, Energy &amp; Climate Change (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 208 Applied Climate Sciences (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Earth Systems (<span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from:</span>) 3-4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 108 Earth’s Natural Resource Systems Lab (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENSC 110 Energy in Perspective (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOL 101 Physical Geology (4 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOL 106 Environmental Geology (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOL 109 Oceanography (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOL 120 Geology of National Parks (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOL 125 Frontiers in Antarctic Geosciences (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOG 155 Elements of Physical Geography (4 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOG 181 Quality of the Environment (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Water (<span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from:</span><span class="requirement-ital">)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENVR 189H Humans, Water &amp; the Environment (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">WATS 281 Introduction to Water Science (GEOG 281/NRES 281) (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Geospatial Science (<span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from:</span><span class="requirement-ital">)</span> 3-4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital"></span></p>

<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 312 Introduction to Geospatial Information Sciences (GEOG 312) (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 412 Introduction to Geographic Information Systems (GEOG 412) (4 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 418 Introduction to Remote Sensing (GEOG 418) (4 cr)<br /><span style="color: #333333;"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CRPL 433 GIS in Environmental Design &amp; Planning (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Human Dimensions Electives (BS and BA Degrees): 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select two courses from two different departments</span> 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AECN 256 Legal Aspects in Agriculture (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AECN 276 Rural Sociology (SOCI 241) (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AECN 346 World Food Economics (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AECN 357 Natural Resource &amp; Environmental Law (NREE 357) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AECN 376 Rural Community Economics (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AECN 456 Environmental Law (NREE 456) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AECN 457 Water Law (NREE 457/WATS 457) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 125 Land, Food &amp; People (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 202 Leadership Development in Small Groups &amp; Teams (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 388 Ethics in Agriculture &amp; Natural Resources (AECN 388) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 393 Digital Imaging &amp; Storytelling in Agriculture &amp; Natural Resources (3-9 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 410 Environmental Leadership (NRES 413) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 110 Introduction to Anthropology (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 130 Anthropology of the Great Plains (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 170 Introduction to Great Plains Studies (GEOG 170/GPSP 170/NRES 170/SOCI 170) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 212 Introduction to Cultural Anthropology (ETHN 212) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 261 Conflict &amp; Conflict Resolution (POLS 261/SOCI 261/PSYC 261) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 351 Indigenous Peoples of North America (ETHN 351) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 408 Cross-Cultural Mentoring I (WMNS 408) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 454  Ethnographic Field School (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 473 Ecological Anthropology (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 476 Human Rights, Environment, &amp; Development (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BLAW 300 Business, Government and Society (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">COMM 200 Communication, Collaboration, &amp; Community: Introduction (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">COMM 210 Communicating in Small Groups (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">COMM 211 Intercultural Communication (ETHN 211) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">COMM 220  Public Advocacy &amp; Civic Engagement (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">COMM 283 Interpersonal Communication (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">COMM 334 Polls, Politics &amp; Public Opinion (POLS 334) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">COMM 365 Communication &amp; Social Identity (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">COMM 371 Communication in Negotiation &amp; Conflict Resolution (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">COMM 375 Theories of Persuasion (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CRPL 470 Environmental Planning &amp; Policy (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 460 Human Dimensions of Sustainability (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENSC 230 Energy &amp; the Environment: Economics &amp; Policy (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOG 140 Introductory Human Geography (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOG 181 Quality of the Environment (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOG 272 Geography of World Regions (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOG 283 Space, the Environment &amp; You (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOG 334 Historical Geography of the Great Plains (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOG 361 Urban Geography (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOG 406 Spatial &amp; Environmental Influences in Social Systems (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOG 447 Political Geography (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MNGT 300 Management Essentials for Contemporary Organizations (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 111 Natural Resource Conservation in Society (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 260 Environmental Communication Skills (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 409 Human Dimensions of Natural Resources (3 cr) (GEOG 409)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 423 Integrated Resources Management (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 475 Water Quality Strategy ((AGRO 475/CIVE 475/CRPL 475/GEOL 475/MSYM 475/POLS 475/SOCI 475/SOIL 475/WATS 475) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHIL 225 Environmental Ethics (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">POLS 104 Comparative Politics (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">POLS 130 News Literacy, The Public, &amp; Politics (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">POLS 150 Introduction to Biology, Psychology, &amp; Politics (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">POLS 160 International Relations (GLST 160) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">POLS 221 Politics in State &amp; Local Governments (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">POLS 232 Public Issues in America (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">POLS 250 Genetics, Brains, &amp; Politics (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">POLS 260 Problems in International Relations (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">POLS 268 Threats to World Order (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">POLS 334 Polls, Politics &amp; Public Opinion (COMM 334) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">POLS 350 Issues in Biology, Psychology, &amp; Politics (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">POLS 362 Globalization, Human Rights &amp; Diversity (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">POLS 459 International Political Economy (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">POLS 470 International Human Rights (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">PSYC 181 Introduction to Psychology (4 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">PSYC 288 The Psychology of Social Behavior (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">PSYC 330 Psychology of Diversity (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">SOCI 101 Introduction to Sociology (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">SOCI 446 Environmental Sociology (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select two courses from two different departments</span> 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">SOCI 446 Environmental Sociology (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 473 Ecological Anthropology (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 460 Human Dimensions of Sustainability (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 409 Human Dimensions of Natural Resources (GEOG 409) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENGL 317 Literature &amp; the Environment (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AECN 456 Environmental Law (NREE 456) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AECN 457 Water Law (NREE 457/WATS 457) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">POLS 361 The United Nations &amp; World Politics (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">POLS 362 Globalization, Human Rights &amp; Diversity (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CRPL 300 The Community &amp; the Future (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CRPL 471 Environmental Impact Assessment (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AGRO 435 Agroecology (HORT 435/NRES 435) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 434 Envronmental Education &amp; Interpretation (ENVR 434) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 410 Environmental Leadership (NRES 413) (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Economics and Policy (BS &amp; BA Degrees)  6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from:</span> ECON 200 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ECON 211 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ECON 212 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> AECN 141 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one course from:</span> NRES 323 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CRPL 470 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> AECN 345 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> AECN 346 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> AECN 357 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Ancillary Courses (BA): 16-21</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Mathematics: MATH 102 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> MATH 103 or higher (2-5 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Statistics: STAT 218 (or equivalent) (3 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Biological Sciences: BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L (4 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Chemistry: CHEM 105 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 109 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 113 (4 cr) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Physics: PHYS 115 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> PHYS 141 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> PHYS 151 (3-5 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Ancillary Courses (BS): 30-34</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Mathematics: MATH 106 or higher (4-5 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Statistics: STAT 218 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> STAT 380 or equivalent (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Biological Sciences: LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L and LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L (8 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Chemistry: CHEM 109 &amp; CHEM 110 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> CHEM 113 &amp; CHEM 114 (7-8 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Physics: PHYS 141 &amp; PHYS 142 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> PHYS 211 &amp; 212 (8-10 cr)</p>
<p class="title-3;">Minor/Program Emphasis Area Required</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Environmental Studies majors must complete a Plan A minor or second major in one of the following areas:</p>
<p> <span class="requirement-sec-2">Biological Sciences</span> </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Chemistry </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Communication Studies </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">English </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Geography </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"> Geology </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"> Meteorology/Climatology </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Political Science </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Psychology </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Sociology</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><br /><br /><br /></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1"><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="list-ital"></span><span class="list-ital"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-underline"></span><span class="requirement-underline"></span><span class="requirement-underline"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-ital"></span><span class="requirement-bold"></span></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Environmental studies majors must earn a “C” or “P” or higher in all major courses with the exception of ancillary courses. </p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">No major courses may be taken Pass/No Pass without permission of the department.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<ul>
<li>Minimum of 18 hours with 6 hours at 300 level or above are required.</li>
</ul>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">1. Required Environmental Studies Courses </span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Credit Hours 7</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENVR 101 Environmental Studies Orientation 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENVR 201 Science, Systems, Environment &amp; Sustainability 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENVR 249 Individual &amp; Cultural Perspectives on the Environment 3</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">2. Minimum of 11 hours will be selected for the course of study plan.</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Natural Sciences</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 220 Principles of Ecology (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 232 Ecological Issues in the Great Plains (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 270 Biological Invaders (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENTO 300 Toxins in the Environment (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select one from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 104 Climate in Crisis (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">METR 100 Weather &amp; Climate (4 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">METR 180 Environment, Energy and Climate Chagne (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 208 Applied Climate Sciences (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 108 Earth’s Natural Resource Systems Lab (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENSC 110 Energy in Perspective (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">GEOL 106 Environmental Geology (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">SOIL 153 Soil Resources (4 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">WATS 281 Introduction to Water Science (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Human Dimensions <span class="requirement-ital">(Select one course from two of the six areas)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Area 1. Ethics </span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHIL 225 Environmental Ethics (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 388 Ethics in Agriculture &amp; Natural Resources (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Area 2. Law</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AECN 357 Natural Resource &amp; Environmental Law (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AECN 457 Water Law (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AECN 456 Environmental Law (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Area 3. Resource Management</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 423 Integrated Resources Management (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CRPL 470 Environmental Planning &amp; Policy (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CRPL 471 Environmental Impact Assessment (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 475 Water Quality Strategy (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Area 4. Leadership</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 410 Environmental Leadership (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">COMM 371 Communication in Negotiation &amp; Conflict Resolution (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ALEC 202 Leadership Development in Small Groups &amp; Teams (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Area 5. Cultural Perspectives</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">SOCI 446 Environmental Sociology (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ANTH 473 Ecological Anthropology (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 460 Human Dimensions in Sustainability</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 409 Human Dimensions of Natural Resources</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-underline">Area 6. Economics and Policy</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-ital">Select from:</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NRES 323 Natural Resources Policy (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ECON 211 Principles of Macroeconomics (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AECN 141 Introduction to the Economics of Agriculture (3 cr)</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>