<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>German (ASC) 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="german-asc-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">German (ASC)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> German (ASC)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Christina Brantner</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Evelyn Jacobson,</span> 1111 Oldfather Hall</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Vice Chair: </span>Radha Balasubramanian</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Carr, Hayden-Roy, E. Jacobson, Pereira, Stump</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Balasubramanian, Brantner, González, González-Allende, Guevara, Kalisa, Lorenzo, Mejias-Bikandi, Saskova-Pierce, Shirer</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Amano, Enkin, Hasan, Kingsbury-Brunetto, Peterson, Velázquez</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Emeriti Professors:</span> Fouletier-Smith, M. Jacobson, Martinez, Nickel, Turner, Wilhelmsen</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Department of Modern Languages and Literatures offers courses in Arabic, German, Japanese, the Romance Language group (French, Spanish), and the Slavic group (Czech, Russian). Whenever possible, the courses are conducted in the language that is studied. The aim of instruction is reading, writing, aural and oral proficiency, and an understanding of the life, literature, and culture of the country. Lectures and films in the language studied are offered during the school year for the benefit of the students in the department. Language laboratories supplement class work.</p>
<p class="title-2">Placement</p>
<p class="basic-text">Incoming students who wish to enter the University’s language program in French, Spanish, and German are required to take the Computer Assisted Placement Examination (CAPE). The results of the placement exam, together with training in a secondary school university, or other prior second language environments, will assist students in finding the level at which they will have the greatest opportunity for success. The examination results will be used in combination with advising to determine appropriate placement in the sequence of courses offered within the department’s curriculum. CAPE is administered in the language laboratory (302 Burnett Hall). Those students exempted from this requirement are expected to enroll in a first semester elementary course (101). Students qualifying for this exemption are defined as follows:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Students with no previous second language exposure whatsoever.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Students whose second language exposure amounts to one year or less at the US high school level.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Students who wish to begin study of a new language other than those previously studied.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Foreign language placement guidelines are generally determined by the following criteria for students who come to the University with:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. 1 semester of a language in high school should take 101 (same language or a new one);</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. 2 or 3 semesters in high school should take 102 (same language);</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. 4 or 5 semesters in high school should take 201;</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. 6 semesters in high school should take 202;</p>
<p class="numbered-list">5. 8 semesters or more in high school should take 203.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The department participates in the following interdisciplinary study programs: Institute for Ethnic Studies, Global Studies, Jewish Studies, Latin American Studies, Medieval and Renaissance Studies, and Women’s and Gender Studies.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may receive full credit at the University of Nebraska for education abroad programs in many countries, among these are Costa Rica, France, Germany (especially our homegrown Berlin program with internship possibility), Spain, Russia, Japan, and the Czech Republic. See http://educationabroad.unl.edu for a guide to these programs.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Auditing.</span> Audits are allowed in 101 in French, German and Spanish only upon recommendation of the Modern Language Placement Advisers. Otherwise no audits are allowed in 100- and 200-level classes.</p>
<p class="title-2">Literature in Translation</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Department offers the following literature in translation courses for which no knowledge of a foreign language is necessary. Check the Schedule of Classes to determine which are being taught in any given semester: MODL 234D Major Themes in World Literature; MODL 298, MODL 398 Special Topics; FREN 282 and GERM 282 Literature in Translation; SPAN 264 and SPAN 265 Spanish-American Literature in Translation I &amp; II; MODL/GERM 442/842 Survey of Medieval German Literature in Translation; JAPN 331 Introduction to Japanese Film; JAPN 483 Japanese Literature in Translation; and RUSS 482 and RUSS 483 Russian Literature in Translation I &amp; II.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> The advanced degrees of master of arts and doctor of philosophy are offered in French, German, and Spanish. For details, see the <span class="basic-text-ital">Graduate Studies Bulletin</span>.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements:</p>

<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">27 hours (of courses numbered 300 or above).</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">• Core: GERM 301, GERM 302, GERM 303, GERM 304, GERM 403</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">• 3 additional hours of elective GERM courses at 300 level or above (these may include</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">GERM classes offered in English)</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">• 6 additional hours of elective GERM courses at 400 level.</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">• 3 additional elective credit hours. These 3 hours may be from:</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">- a 300 or 400 level GERM class,</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">- a 300 or 400 level MODL class as approved by the undergraduate advisor.</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">- from a class with a German studies focus in English, History, Music, Political</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">Science, Philosophy, Art History, Theater as approved by the undergraduate</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">advisor. Specific classes that me be used to fulfill this requirement are:</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">AHIS 226 Northern Renaissance Art</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">AHIS 426 Northern Renaissance and Reformation Art</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">AHIS 498 Special Problems: German Film and art between the Wars</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">HIST 327 19th Century Germany</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">HIST 328 History of Germany, 1914-present</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">HIST 339 The Holocaust</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">HIST 421 The German Reformation (Cross-listed with German)</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">HIST 429 History of Fascism in Europe</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">MUSC 442 Great Composers</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">PHIL 333 History of Philosophy</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">PHIL 345 Modern European Jewish Philosophy</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">PHIL 471 Kant</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">POLS 371 The Politics of the European Union</p>
<p style="margin: 0px; font-size: 11px; font-family: Helvetica;">(Classes in Film Studies offered through the Department of English are possible in consultation with instructor and German Section.)</p>


<p><strong>Program Assessment.</strong> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its programs, majors will be required to assemble and maintain a portfolio. In their junior year, majors will be assigned a faculty adviser who will inform students of the required contents of the portfolio, deadlines and procedures. By their senior year, majors will be required to complete a taped oral proficiency interview.</p>
<p>Results of participation in this assessment activity will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</p>

<p><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">No courses in the department may be taken by students majoring or minoring in modern languages for Pass/No Pass credit.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Plan A.</span> 12 hours in one language at the 300 level or 400 level, including at least 6 hours from 301, 302, 303, 304, and 3 hours at the 400 level.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title"> </span>                    </p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Pass/No Pass.</span> No courses in the department may be taken by students majoring or minoring in modern languages for Pass/No Pass credit.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>