<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Gerontology Minor 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="gerontology-minor-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Gerontology Minor</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Public Affairs &amp; Community Service</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Gerontology Minor</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only or Certificate</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 18</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Mr. Bede Bolin</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="title-1">Minor or Certificate in Gerontology</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Dr. Julie Masters,</span> 554-3953</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lincoln Campus:</span> Dr. Julie Masters, 402-472-0754; Adviser: Mr. Bede Bolin, 402-472-0756</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Faculty:</span> Bolin, Boron, Holley, Kelly, Kercher, Masters</p>
<p class="basic-text">Undergraduates may earn a certificate or minor in gerontology. The certificate consists of 15 hours of specified course work plus a one-semester practicum. The minor is comprised of 18 hours of course work. Although an undergraduate major in gerontology is not offered on the UNL campus, the certificate program may be used as a minor or concentration within several degree programs earned through other university departments.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Courses that meet the gerontology requirement are taught by gerontology department faculty as well as related faculty in other UNL and UNO departments. Students should consult the Department of Gerontology for the appropriate selection of courses.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Application materials for admission to the Gerontology Certificate Program can be obtained from the Department office, 310 Nebraska Hall (402-472-0754); CPACS Building 211 on the Omaha campus (554-2272); or at http://www.unomaha.edu/gero.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Application materials for admission to the Gerontology Certificate Program can be obtained from the Department office, 310 Nebraska Hall (402-472-0754); CPACS Building 211 on the Omaha campus (554-2272); or at http://www.unomaha.edu/gero.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Requirements–Certificate in Gerontology</p>
<p class="title-3">Course Work</p>
<p class="basic-text">All undergraduates who wish to earn the certificate in gerontology must complete a minimum of 15 semester hours of gerontology courses, with a core of strongly recommended courses, including Introduction to Gerontology (GERO 200), Psychology of Adult Development and Aging (GERO 446), and Programs and Services for the Elderly (GERO 467). The remaining course work will be agreed upon between the student and his or her gerontology adviser in an individually-designed program of study.</p>
<p class="title-3">Practicum</p>
<p class="basic-text">A one-semester field placement is also required. Students in most cases will earn 3 hours of academic credit for this practicum by registering for GERO 494 (Practicum). It may be possible to coordinate this experience with field placement requirements in other departments (e.g., social work or child, youth and family studies), but in all cases such arrangements must have the prior approval of the gerontology departmental practicum coordinator.</p>
<p class="title-1">Minor in Gerontology</p>
<p class="basic-text">A minor in gerontology consists of 18 credit hours. Nine hours of core courses are required with the remaining 9 hours to be selected by the student with advice and support of the academic adviser for the department.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The core courses required for the minor will include the following:</p>
<p class="list-indent">GERO 200 Intro to Gerontology</p>
<p class="list-indent">GERO 446 Psychology of Adult Development &amp; Aging</p>
<p class="list-indent">GERO 467 Programs &amp; Services for the Elderly</p>
<p class="list-indent">GERO 455 Health Aspects of Aging <span class="list-ital">(while not required, will be strongly encouraged for those seeking a career in health care)</span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Students may also select a course offered in another department that has at least 75% of its focus on the aging experience. This course can be counted toward a minor in gerontology. A practicum will not be required of students pursuing a minor. The student must earn an overall average of “C” (2.0) in courses for the minor.</p>
<p class="title-3">Administration of the Program</p>
<p class="basic-text">The UNO Department of Gerontology administers the certificate in gerontology program for all campuses of the University of Nebraska under an agreement approved by the Board of Regents in 1977. Students at UNL, UNO, UNK, and UNMC are thus able to earn the certificate as part of their academic work at the University of Nebraska.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who wish to earn the certificate must go through a formal admissions procedure; admissions materials are available at the offices named above.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Undergraduates who begin work toward the certificate late in their academic program may find it difficult to schedule the necessary course work and practicum hours prior to graduation (this is especially true for BSN candidates in the College of Nursing). It is acceptable, and in many cases desirable, to complete the classroom portion of work toward the certificate while an undergraduate, receive the bachelors degree from one’s major department, and then complete work on the practicum during the semester after graduation as an unclassified postgraduate. Gerontology advisers maintain a degree of flexibility in order to work with students who have special needs.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>