<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Inclusive Early Childhood Education (Birth-Grade 3) 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="inclusive-early-childhood-education-birth-grade-3-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Inclusive Early Childhood Education (Birth-Grade 3)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Inclusive Early Childhood Education (Birth-Grade 3)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.5 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Val Wiemeyer</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students enrolled in this field endorsement will meet the requirements for the Nebraska Inclusive Early Childhood Education (Birth to Grade 3) Teaching Certificate Endorsement. The program is based on an inclusive, family-focused style of working with young children across a range of abilities and disabilities, and on collaboration and teamwork. Students will gain a view of the field that integrates education, prevention, and intervention services. The program will prepare students for careers working in a variety of roles in early childhood and early primary classrooms and services.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Persons in this endorsement may teach infants, toddlers, and children from birth through grade 3, including those with disabilities and support families and other personnel with responsibilities for their care and education.</p>
<p class="title-1">General Information</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College offers undergraduate programs leading to a bachelor of science in education and human sciences degree in more than 40 different teaching endorsements. Some students in other UNL colleges choose to seek certification, completing a degree in their home college while meeting all requirements for teacher certification in the College of Education and Human Sciences.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Early field placement in public and private schools is a nationally recognized hallmark of the teacher education program in the College of Education and Human Sciences. While internships are a valuable enhancement to many students’ education, in the College of Education and Human Sciences, practicum experiences and student teaching are a critical and essential part of the teacher education curriculum and these must be successfully completed. A student’s inability to complete these field experiences, for any reason, may adversely impact the candidate’s ability to gain admission into the College or maintain enrollment in a teacher preparation program. Students unlikely or unable to complete the field experience may be counseled to seek other opportunities where success is more attainable. (See “Criminal History Background Check Requirement” and “Professional and Ethical Behavior” under the OTHER heading for additional information with respect to behaviors impacting field experience participation.)</p>
<p class="basic-text">Teacher education endorsements (or majors) are divided into field endorsements or single-subject endorsements. Field endorsements certify the candidate to teach a broader range of courses compared to single-subject endorsements, which certify the candidate to teach in one subject area only. Consequently, a teacher holding a field endorsement is typically more marketable than a teacher holding a single-subject endorsement.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Candidates may also elect to complete requirements for supplemental endorsements; these are additional endorsements that can be added to a field or single-subject endorsement but cannot be taken alone. Supplemental endorsements require additional credit hours beyond those needed for the first endorsement (field or single-subject). Teachers may increase their marketability by adding supplemental endorsements.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may also choose to complete requirements for two endorsements simultaneously. Completing a second endorsement will require additional credit hours beyond those required for the first endorsement. Often the completion of two endorsements requires more than 120 credit hours of course work and may require additional semesters of course work. Students may contact the College Student Services Center, 105 Henzlik Hall, or their advisor, for assistance in deciding whether to complete: field or single-subject endorsements, one or more supplemental endorsements, or multiple endorsements.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>
<p class="basic-text">All education programs have a competitive admission process. At some point-in-time, after meeting specific education requirements, all students must formally apply to their particular education program.</p>
<p class="title-1">Pre-Education Status</p>
<p class="basic-text">All newly admitted students who are pursuing a teacher preparation program are classified as pre-education students until admitted to a specific Teacher Education Program.</p>
<p class="title-1">Admission to a Teacher Education Program (TEP)</p>
<p class="basic-text">Admission to the College of Education and Human Sciences does not guarantee admission into a teacher education program. Admission to the advanced phases of teacher education is selective and, in some endorsements, highly competitive. Students must satisfy the following requirements in order to be eligible to apply to the Teacher Education Program:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Completion of at least 30 credit hours of college credit with a minimum 2.5 cumulative GPA.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Completion of the following courses with a grade of C+ or above: TEAC 331; CYAF 271 and CYAF 271L or CYAF 270 and CYAF 270L; SPED 201 or SPED 303; TEAC 297A; and one course in communication studies selected from COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 210, COMM 283, COMM 286, or ALEC 102.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Documentation of proficiency in reading, writing, and mathematics through successful completion of the Core Academic Skills Examination, for educators, as the basic skills examination that meets the Nebraska Department of Education competency requirement.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Completion and submission of the Teacher Education Program application form and documentation of practica experiences.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">5. Completion of a formal criminal history review, for CEHS, by the vender approved by CEHS (fee required).</p>
<p class="title-1">Admission to Student Teaching</p>
<p class="basic-text">All students who are candidates for an appropriately endorsed Nebraska Teacher’s Certificate, are required to student teach. The basic program for student teaching provides for a full-day experience for an entire semester. Students enrolled in the Inclusive Early Childhood Education Program will complete separate requirements for student teaching in both the Elementary Education (K-3) and Preschool Areas. Admission to student teaching requires the following:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Admission to the Inclusive Early Childhood Education program.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. A minimum 2.75 cumulative GPA on a 4.0 scale.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. A minimum 2.5 GPA in pre-professional and professional education courses and no grade below a C in pre-professional education courses and no grade below a C+ in professional education courses.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Minimum grade point average of 2.5 in the endorsement area with no grade below C.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">5. All endorsement, pre-professional and professional education course work must be completed prior to student teaching. If necessary, no more than 6 hours of general education (ACE) or elective classes can be completed after the student teaching experience. No additional course work can be taken during the student teaching semester unless prior approval is obtained from the Certification Officer, the Director of Professional Experiences, or the Department Chair that oversees the program.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">6. Completion of a second criminal history check that will be conducted, for CEHS, by the vender approved by CEHS (fee required). For more information, contact the Director of Professional  Experiences or your advisor.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Endorsement Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Degree at a Glance</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Requirements 30</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Select one course for each.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 1. ENGL 101, ENGL 150, ENGL 151, ENGL 254 <span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-Professional Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 2. ALEC 102, COMM 109, COMM 209, COMM 210, COMM 283, COMM 286 <span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-Professional Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 3. MATH 203 or STAT 218 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 4. ENTO 115 &amp; ENTO 116, ANTH 242 &amp; ANTH 242L, BIOS 101 &amp; BIOS 101L, CHEM 105, CHEM 109, GEOL 101, PHYS 141, METR 100, NRES 108 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 5. ENGL 230A, ENGL 231, ENGL 260, ENGL 261, ENGL 305A <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Courses)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 6. CYAF 160 <span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-Professional Education Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 7. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 8. TEAC 331 <span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-Professional Education Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 9. TEAC 330 <span class="requirement-ital">(Pre-Professional Education Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 10. TEAC 403A <span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Education Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Pre-Professional Education Requirements 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NUTR 100 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Endorsement Requirements 40</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 270 &amp; CYAF 270L, CYAF 210 &amp; CYAF 210L (3 hrs ea) 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 271 &amp; CYAF 271L (4 hrs) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 371 &amp; 371L (3 hrs) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 380, CYAF 384, CYAF 474, MATH 300, SPED 201, SPED 303, SPED 414, TEAC 410, TEAC 305 (3 hrs ea) 27</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Professional Education Requirements 41</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 374 &amp; CYAF 374L 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TEAC 297A 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TEAC 416A, TEAC 416B, TEAC 416D, TEAC 397D (3 hrs ea) 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">SPED 362 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">SPED 496Y 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CYAF 497A 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">TEAC 497A 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">SPED 497Q 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Choose one age specialization (Birth to Age 5 OR Age 3 to Grade 3) </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-underline">Specialization in Birth to Age 5</span> (6 hrs)</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-4">SPED 463 (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">CYAF 383 (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-underline">Specialization in Age 3 to Grade 3</span> (7 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">SPED 415 &amp; SPED 415A (4 hrs)</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-4">TEAC 302 (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Electives 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 120</p>
<p class="title-1">ACE Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their advisor prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">All courses must be a C or above. All methods course must be a C+ or above.</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Requirements in Education Programs</p>
<p class="basic-text">Requirements for completion of an undergraduate degree in a teacher preparation program include a minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.75. Students seeking certification must also have a 2.5 GPA in their endorsement and education courses with no grade lower than a C in their pre-professional courses and no grade lower than a C+ in their professional education courses.</p>
<p class="title-2">Transfer Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Up to 9 hours of transfer credit with grades below C may be applied to the General Education requirements and elective classes in programs leading to the undergraduate degree in teacher preparation. Transfer grades of C- and D may not be used in the major/endorsement area courses or in the professional courses in teacher preparation programs.</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Grade Option–for Education Students</p>
<p class="basic-text">A student enrolled at the University may, in certain instances, take a grading option of Pass/No Pass (P/N) for a specific course. A grade of pass represents satisfactory completion of a course with a grade of C or better. Credits earned under the pass grade option count toward graduation, but no grade points are tabulated in the cumulative grade point average. Likewise, a grade of no pass is not tabulated in the grade point average. The following rules apply to students who are enrolled in teacher preparation programs who choose the Pass/No Pass option:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Only one course in each subject endorsement may be taken P/N; two courses in a field endorsement may be taken P/N.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Pre-professional and professional education classes may not be taken P/N unless a class already has a P/N designation.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Any course in the general education requirements unless otherwise stipulated by the department of the course may be taken P/N.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Total P/N credits may not exceed 12 credit hours. This limit does not include courses offered on a P/N only basis.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Students who are admitted through the Admission by Review process with core course deficiencies will have certain conditions attached to their enrollment at UNL.</p>
<p class="title-2">Beyond Classroom Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">In all fields of study, students are expected to attain certain grades and other academic accomplishments in the classroom. In addition to this, students preparing themselves to be teachers, counselors and for other careers in education, are also reviewed to evaluate their ability to successfully and safely interact with children, parents, potential educational employers, and the community-at-large, whose interest in the education of its children often exceeds its concern for other community and governmental services.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">OTHER</p>
<p class="title-1">Student Teaching Placement</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Office of Professional Experiences is responsible for the placement of student teachers. Several factors are considered in determining the district and school to which an individual is assigned. The availability of a cooperating teacher and supervisor who meet the requirements established by the Nebraska Department of Education and the University of Nebraska–Lincoln are among those factors. Opportunities to student teach out-of-state are limited and those placements are becoming increasingly difficult. All requests to student teach outside of the immediate Lincoln area must be individually reviewed and approved by the Director of Professional Experiences.</p>
<p class="title-1">Removal from Student Teaching</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students participating in practicum or student teaching assignments may be removed from their assigned schools if their conduct suggests a lack of professional commitment and presents a negative influence on the well-being or learning of the students in the schools. Specific guidelines that all student teachers are to follow can be found in The Student Teaching Experience: A Handbook for the University of Nebraska–Lincoln. If such a problem occurs, at the request of the cooperating teacher, building principal, or the College supervisor, the student will be removed from the school placement by the Director of Professional Experiences. In such cases, a written report stating the problem and efforts to correct the situation will be forwarded to the Director of Professional Experiences in the College Student Services Center.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Any student removed from a practicum or student teaching assignment may appeal that decision by submitting a written request to the College Appeals Committee within 30 days of the removal. The Appeals Committee will schedule a meeting, request pertinent information from the Director of Professional Experiences, and notify the student several days in advance of the scheduled appeal meeting. Students are advised of their right to seek legal advice and may personally attend the Appeals Committee meeting. The Committee’s decision will be forwarded in writing to the student, to the Director of Professional Experiences, and to the Dean of the College.</p>
<p class="title-1">Praxis II</p>
<p class="basic-text">All students completing a program leading to a teaching certificate with an endorsement in elementary grades (grades K-6) will be required to take the EECIA-00011 version of Praxis II before graduation. Test completion will be documented through official test score results.</p>
<p class="title-1">Application for a Nebraska Teaching Certificate</p>
<p class="basic-text">To actively engage in the teaching profession, a candidate must fulfill both the College degree requirements and the professional certification requirements of the State of Nebraska, Department of Education. Students apply for the teaching certificate online at www.education.ne.gov/tcert/ and apply for the baccalaureate degree in 109 Canfield Administration Building.</p>
<p class="basic-text">To be eligible for a recommendation for certification, a candidate must meet the following requirements:</p>
<p class="numbered-list">1. Earn one or more undergraduate degrees from the College of Education and Human Sciences or another accredited institution approved by the College of Education and Human Sciences with a minimum 2.5 grade point average.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">2. Complete the teacher education general education requirements listed for elementary, middle grades or secondary education.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">3. Complete professional education requirements according to established standards.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">4. Complete endorsement(s) according to established standards.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">5. Successfully complete a required period of student teaching.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">6. Complete application for the degree and certificate.</p>
<p class="title-1">Graduation Without Certification</p>
<p class="basic-text">In <span class="basic-text-bold">rare</span> cases, permission may be granted for a student to graduate without a recommendation for teacher certification (GWC). In order to qualify for GWC a student must have senior class standing and be within two semesters of student teaching. In addition the student:</p>
<ul>
<li> must be unable to qualify for student teaching based on grades or other performance-based issues, or</li>
<li> be removed from student teaching, or</li>
<li> because of illness or other unusual situations, decides not to complete or is unable to complete all of the professional requirements in a teacher education program.</li>
</ul>
<p class="header-paragraph">If a student is unable to meet all of the requirements as described in the “Admission to Student Teaching” section, such as minimum course grade requirements for courses in the professional education sequence or in one’s content area, but still earns passing grades in those courses while maintaining the grade point average minimums, then the student may be eligible to GWC.</p>
<p class="basic-text">To apply for GWC, the student should contact his or her advisor, meet with the College’s Certification Officer, and then submit a formal request to the College’s Certification Officer to be allowed to graduate without completing all certification requirements. If permission is granted, the student is expected to complete all remaining content area and professional education requirements except student teaching. The requirements include passing grades in all remaining courses while maintaining the minimum grade point averages as specified in the “Admission to Student Teaching.” If a student begins student teaching but fails to complete at least one half of the assignment, the individual will be required to complete a culminating project not to exceed 6 credit hours. The student must still meet the ACE 10 general education requirement. Contact your advisor or the Certification Officer to make sure that this requirement is satisfied.</p>
<p class="basic-text"><span class="basic-text-bold">Any student who graduates without a recommendation for certification will not be recommended for teacher certification in any state.</span> In addition, the student will not be eligible for graduation with honors. If, at some future time, the student wishes to complete certification requirements, (s)he must first appeal for readmission to a teacher education program. At least one semester must pass after graduation before the appeal can be made. If the appeal is granted, the student will be treated as a readmitted student and will complete all requirements in effect at the time of reentry, including passing grades in all methods courses.</p>
<p class="title-1">Education Employment Services</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Career Services Center, 230 Nebraska Union, offers a professional placement service to students and alumni who are seeking employment in education and related fields. In addition to providing on-campus interviews with select schools throughout the year, this office sponsors an annual Education Recruitment Day in the spring, which offers students an opportunity to interview with hiring officials from many schools.</p>
<p class="title-1">Criminal History Background Check Requirement</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Education and Human Sciences (CEHS) has the responsibility to ensure that our students who interact with children served by schools or other agencies meet a high level of personal, professional and ethical behavior. Nebraska Department of Education policy requires that a person with any felony conviction or a misdemeanor conviction involving assault, abuse, neglect, or sexual misconduct shall not be allowed to participate in pre-student teaching laboratory and classroom experiences or student teach without approval of the State Board of Education. In addition, the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services standards apply to all individuals working in any capacity with pre-school children who are not yet in kindergarten. To comply with these two sets of standards, the College of Education and Human Sciences will require each student in a teacher education program to complete two formal reviews of their criminal history, which is conducted by the approved CEHS vendor. The first criminal history background check will be completed during the first semester of the student's entry into the College. This must be completed before the first field experience. The second criminal history background check will take place as part of the student teaching application process, culminating experience, or internship. Students are responsible for the cost of the criminal history background checks. If more than three years elapse after the initial background check is conducted, the College reserves the right to require completion of additional background checks. Eighteen months after the initial Criminal History Background Check, undergraduate students are required to complete the CEHS self-disclosure report. Graduate students will be required to complete the self-disclosure report at the same time as the initial background check is conducted and again eighteen months later.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students with any felony or any misdemeanor charges or convictions, as reported on the background check, will be contacted by the College and may be required to meet with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Professional Experiences. This meeting will be held so that the student can receive guidance with respect to the impact of the charge or conviction on the student's future in the College and the profession of education. <span class="basic-text-bold">If any new charges or convictions are acquired after any background check, students are required to me</span>e<span class="basic-text-bold">t with the Certification Officer or with the Director of Professional Experiences within two weeks after the event occurs. Failure to disclose any new information concerning one's criminal history can lead to removal from the program.</span> A student's ability to continue to participate in any teacher education program in the College will be based on the type and number of convictions, the recentness of their occurrence, and whether these violate the standards of the Nebraska Department of Education and/or the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services. The standards that the College sets for its students may be more stringent than the rules of the Nebraska Department of Education or the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services. The consequences of one conviction compared to another may vary significantly, depending upon the facts underlying the convictions.</p>
<p class="title-1">Professional and Ethical Behavior: Avoiding Risky Behaviors</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to criminal convictions, other non-criminal behaviors which: involve risks that are unacceptable for future teachers and the children charged to their care; demonstrate a lack of professionalism and good judgment; and evidence a disregard for one’s personal reputation, the integrity of the College and the teaching profession, may bring into question a student’s ability to be successful in an education career. Before engaging in such questionable behavior, students must consider how the College, the profession, educational employer, parents of school-aged children, and the community of Nebraska would perceive or evaluate the impact of that behavior with respect to the student's ability to serve children. Teaching is a profession that requires its potential candidates to be individuals of the highest integrity. The College reserves its prerogative to evaluate students' fitness for the profession in its discretion, so that safety in the classroom, the reputation of the College, and the best interest of the student, are all recognized and promoted. Should the College, through the reasonable exercise of the judgement of its Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences, determine that a student's individual behavior represent a lack of integrity, questionable moral/ethical character, or otherwise indicates a potential of risk to young persons and others in the educational community, the College of Education and Human Sciences may deny entry to or dismiss such a student from any program which leads to certification or to services of children in a community agency. More specifically, these kinds of behavior shall be adequate foundation to deny any candidate or potential candidate from participation in any practicum, pre-practicum, student teaching or similar field experience, since the interests and safety of the children and young people present in the classroom, schools and other practicum settings are paramount. Students will be expected to meet Nebraska standards for personal and professional fitness, as described in the Nebraska Application for Teacher Certification. The consequences for unprofessional, unethical or risky behavior will differ given the unique circumstances involved in each matter.</p>
<p class="title-1">Appeal to the Dean</p>
<p class="basic-text">Should a student object to the determination made by the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences with respect to a criminal behavior or unprofessional behavior, the student may appeal to the Dean of the College, in writing, within ten days of the determination, requesting the Dean of the College to investigate and review the determination. The student's written appeal shall clearly explain the basis for the appeal. The Dean will review the student's basis for appeal and is authorized but not required to look into related concerns, whether or not sure concerns are contained in the student's written appeal. The Dean shall render a decision on the appeal as soon as reasonably possible, but no later than 20 days following the initiation of the appeal. Once the Dean has completed the review and investigation, he or she shall deliver to the students and the Certification Officer or the Director of Professional Experiences a written decision, which shall be final and not subject to further appeal or review with the University of Nebraska.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>