<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>International Engineering Minor 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="international-engineering-minor-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">International Engineering Minor</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Engineering</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> International Engineering Minor</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> Plan A: 18, Plan B: 12</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> </p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="title-2">This minor is for engineering majors ONLY.</p>
<p class="basic-text">This minor is designed to encourage and recognize undergraduate students who enhance their engineering education with courses and experiences consistent with the global nature of engineering and the economy.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">The College of Engineering enables its students to participate in this approved minor subject to the following conditions:</p>
<p class="list">1. A minor will not reduce or alter the existing course or degree requirements for students electing to pursue a minor.</p>
<p class="list">2. A student’s minor program must be organized and approved by an adviser prior to the submission of the senior check to the department chair or head.</p>
<p class="list">3. The minor must be approved by the adviser, the department chair or head, the Dean and the cognizant program offering the minor.</p>
<p class="list">4. The College of Engineering will follow the “Plan A/B” format of the Arts and Sciences College in which a student pursuing a single minor must complete the “Plan A” requirements. A student pursuing a double (or greater) minor must fulfill either the “Plan A” or “Plan B” requirements for both minors depending on which plan is offered by the cognizant department.</p>
<p class="list">5. Minors on the Lincoln or Omaha campuses may be added by approval of the College of Engineering Curriculum Committee and faculty.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="title-2">Plan A (18 credits)</p>
<p class="list">1. Twelve (12) credit hours of courses in international engineering and internationally related courses.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">a. A minimum of 3 credit hours must be ENGR 490 or a 3-credit education abroad course from another UNL college (such as AGRI 310 or BSAD 491) or from another university. Substitution for ENGR 490 with related COE courses, participation in a study abroad experience, or courses from another college or university must be pre-approved by the COE Student Services office. International students should meet this requirement in countries other than their own or the U.S.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">b. At least one of the following internationally related economics, development, leadership, marketing, or trade courses: AECN 346, AECN 367, AECN 420, AECN 425, ECON 321, or MNGT 414.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">c. A maximum of 3 credits from special problems (projects) or honors thesis type courses (e.g. departmental 390, 396, 398, 399, 491, 498, 499 courses) may be used toward the 12-credit requirement.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">d. Elective courses to complete the 12-credit requirement must be chosen from the list of courses maintained by the College of Engineering Student Services office.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">e. A minimum of 3 credit hours, not including (a) through (c) above, must be in 200-level courses or above.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">f. A maximum of 6 credit hours may be taken Pass/No-Pass.</p>
<p class="list">2. Six (6) credit hours of modern language consisting of at least two (2) courses. Entry-level modern language courses (such as the 5-credit 101 and 102 courses at UNL) that are used to remove a UNL entrance deficiency in modern languages may not be used to satisfy this requirement. International students may not use modern language courses of origin in their native (first) language. Where modern language courses exceed 3 credits, a maximum of 3 total credits each will apply to the Plan A minor. These courses may not be taken Pass/No-Pass.</p>
<p class="title-2">Plan B (12 credits)</p>
<p class="list">1. Nine (9) credit hours of courses in international engineering and internationally related courses.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">a. A minimum of 3 credit hours must be ENGR 490 or a 3-credit education abroad course from another UNL college (such as AGRI 310 or BSAD 491) or from another university. Substitution for ENGR 490 with related COE courses, participation in a study abroad experience, or courses from another college or university must be pre-approved by the COE Student Services office. International students should meet this requirement in countries other than their own or the U.S.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">b. At least one of the following internationally related economics, development, leadership, marketing, or trade courses: AECN 346, AECN 367, AECN 420, AECN 425, ECON 321, or MNGT 414.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">c. A maximum of 3 credits from special problems (projects) or honors thesis type courses (e.g. departmental 390, 396, 398, 399, 491, 498, 499 courses) may be used toward the 9 credit requirement.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">d. Elective courses to complete the 9-credit requirement must be chosen from the list of courses maintained by the College of Engineering Student Services office.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">e. A minimum of 3 credit hours, not including (a) through (c) above, must be in 200-level courses or above.</p>
<p class="numbered-list">f. A maximum of 6 credit hours may be taken Pass/No-Pass.</p>
<p class="list">2. Three (3) credit hours of modern language course work. Entry-level modern language courses (such as the 5-credit 101 and 102 courses at UNL) that are used to remove a UNL entrance deficiency in modern languages may not be used to satisfy this requirement. International students may not use modern language courses of origin in their native (first) language. Where modern language courses exceed 3 credits, a maximum of 3 total credits each will apply to the Plan B minor. This course may not be taken Pass/No-Pass.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>