<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Integrated Science Program 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="integrated-science-program-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Integrated Science Program</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Integrated Science Program</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Integrated Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Faculty Advisory Committee</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span></p>

<p class="basic-text">The bachelor of science in integrated science offers students the opportunity to design their own degree program. As an alternative to traditional majors, this individualized program of study allows students to pursue their academic and professional goals in concentration areas not available within existing departmental curricula. With the mentoring of a faculty advisory committee, students focus their degree and select courses across multiple concentration areas to create an individualized and interdisciplinary program of study. Specific degree requirements and concentrations are defined and approved by the student's faculty advisory committee. Additional information is available in the CASNR Dean's Office (103 Agricultural Hall, East Campus).</p>

<div style="width: 1px; height: 1px; overflow: hidden; position: fixed; top: 10px; left: 10px;"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: major-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: 'MS Mincho'; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-fareast; mso-hansi-theme-font: major-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; color: #262626; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;">The Bachelor of Science in Integrated Science offers students the opportunity to design their own degree program. As an alternative to traditional majors, this individualized program of study allows students to pursue their academic and professional goals in concentration areas not available within existing departmental curricula.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>With the mentoring of a faculty advisory committee, students focus their degree and select courses across multiple concentration areas to create an individualized and interdisciplinary program of study.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>Specific degree requirements and concentrations are defined and approved by the student’s faculty advisory committee.</span></div>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Degree Requirements</p>
<p class="list">1. 120 credit hour minimum requirement (30 hours must be at the 300-level or above).</p>
<p class="list">2. General education requirements (ACE) and college core must also be fulfilled. Students should include AGRI 485 (section 002–Senior Project) as their ACE 10 course requirement. The senior project provides students with the opportunity to integrate what they have learned in their degree program and demonstrate their ability to formulate an original interdisciplinary project appropriate to their program of study and career goals.</p>
<p class="list">3. Complete at least 48 hours from more than one core concentration. A minimum of 15 hours with at least 6 hours at the 300-level or above is required for a core concentration. The core concentrations areas are defined and approved by the student's faculty advisory committee. It is strongly encouraged that students complete a concentration outside of CASNR.</p>
<p class="list">4. Complete at least half of the 48 hours of core concentration hours from CASNR.</p>
<p class="list">5. Complete at least 9 hours of course work in international studies.</p>
<p class="list">6. Complete at least one minor or certificate (may be outside of CASNR and included in the 48 hours).</p>
<p class="list">7. Students pursuing an individualized degree program can incorporate experiential learning and off-campus study as part of their degree program (example: internships, research experience, education abroad, domestic experience). Students must complete at least one internship or research experience as part of their program of study. Students can receive college approval to complete more than 6 hours of off-campus study and/or experiential learning, but not more than 12 hours of off-campus study and/or experiential learning can count toward the degree program.</p>
<p class="list">8. A maximum of 6 hours of Pass/No Pass (P/N) credit is allowed in courses taken as part of the 48 hours of core concentrations.</p>
<div style="width: 1px; height: 1px; overflow: hidden; position: fixed; top: 10px; left: 10px;"><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: major-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: 'MS Mincho'; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-fareast; mso-hansi-theme-font: major-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: 'Lucida Grande'; color: #262626; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;">General education requirements (ACE) and college core must also be fulfilled.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span>Students should include AGRI 485 (section 002 – Senior Project) as their ACE 10 course requirement.<span style="mso-spacerun: yes;"> </span></span><span style="font-size: 11.0pt; font-family: 'Calibri',sans-serif; mso-ascii-theme-font: major-latin; mso-fareast-font-family: 'MS Mincho'; mso-fareast-theme-font: minor-fareast; mso-hansi-theme-font: major-latin; mso-bidi-font-family: Verdana; mso-ansi-language: EN-US; mso-fareast-language: EN-US; mso-bidi-language: AR-SA;">The senior project provides students with the opportunity to integrate what they have learned in their degree program and demonstrate their ability to formulate an original interdisciplinary project appropriate to their program of study and career goals</span></div>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Process for Student</p>
<p class="list">1. Explore and articulate interests, strengths, and abilities. Establish career goals. Research the types of career opportunities and employers of interest. Consult with a faculty member and/or professional advisor to determine if an existing degree program satisfies your personal and professional interests.</p>
<p class="list">2. Think about the academic skills and background needed for your career choice. Consider future education plans, including graduate school and professional programs.</p>
<p class="list">3. Identify a faculty member to help you design your program of study and develop an advisory committee. The advisory committee will be comprised of three faculty members with one of the faculty members designated as the major advisor. The major advisor must be from one of the core concentration areas and affiliated with CASNR. One of the advisory committee members can be an industry professional.</p>
<p class="list">4. Develop a proposal that includes the degree program focus, what you hope to accomplish by completing this program, how your individualized program of study connects different disciplines, and the relationship between your career goals and your program of study. Also include the proposed concentration areas, a list of all courses taken or to be taken as part of your degree along with a semester-by-semester plan of study. The selection of courses must be consistent with your personal, academic and professional interests and goals.</p>
<p class="list">5. Schedule a meeting with your faculty advisory committee to present your proposal. Once the faculty advisory committee approves the core concentration areas and program of study, the Advisory Committee Approval (ACA) form should be completed. The ACA form is avilable through the CASNR Dean's Office.</p>
<p class="list">6. Submit the proposal and accompanying ACA form to the CASNR Dean's Office for consideration by the CASNR Curriculum Committee. The CASNR Curriculum Committee must approve the degree program before the student completes 60 of the 120 applicable hours of the degree. Transfer students interested in this opportunity should contact the CASNR Dean's Office.</p>
<p class="list">7. Students pursuing the individualized program of study are required to have a meeting with their faculty advisory committee at the start of each semester (must be completed during the first week of the semester). The purpose of this meeting is to review the program of study and progress towards degree completion, along with discussing the student's professional development and career plans.</p>
<p class="list">8. Any changes to the approved program of study must be recommended by the faculty advisory committee and approved by the CASNR Dean's Office.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>