<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Journalism 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="journalism-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Journalism</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Journalism &amp; Mass Communications</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Journalism</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Journalism</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Stacy Dam</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Bender, Berens (emeritus), Botts (emeritus), Kebbel, Norton (emeritus), Starita, Tuck (emeritus)</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Bullard, Frazell (emeritus), Kimbrough, Neal (emeritus), Pagel (emeritus), Quinlan, Thorson, Weber</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span></p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professor of Practice:</span> Waite</p>
<p class="faculty-list">Associate Professor of Practice: Anderson</p>
<p class="faculty-list">Assistant Professor of Practice: Eno</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Lecturer:</span>  Hassler</p>
<p class="basic-text">The journalism major is built on a solid base of instruction in reporting and writing, copy editing, visual literacy and multimedia journalism. The major also has broadened its curriculum in response to advancing technology and new electronic and mobile media. Elective choices include courses in magazine writing, depth reporting, feature writing, sports writing, business writing<span>, </span>photography, design,  data visualization, web design, videography and advanced editing.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Many of the journalism faculty members have extensive industry experience at media organizations such as The Wall Street Journal, The Miami Herald, The Detroit News, Business Week and The New York Times. The faculty continues to be connected to the industry, and its members are actively involved in professional media organizations. Students, likewise, are encouraged to further their professional goals through participation in student organizations such as the Alpha Epsilon Rho national broadcasting society, the Society of Professional Journalists, Northwest Broadcast News Association, Radio, Television News Directors Association, the Radio Television Digital News Association and the American Copy Editors Society.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Faculty members prepare students for the job market by combining class work with actual experience. Students have the opportunity to work for the Nebraska News Service, the Mosaic website and The Daily Nebraskan. They can also participate in depth reports, international photo projects and many other print and online news services on campus. The journalism program emphasizes professional internships, and students in recent years have worked at such media organizations as ABC News, The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Dallas Morning News, The Omaha World-Herald, The Des Moines Register, The Norfolk Daily News and The St. Paul Pioneer Press, as well as numerous other newspapers and online publications. The college also has partnerships with two media organizations that offer paid internships during the school year in Lincoln.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Omaha World-Herald, Nebraska’s largest newspaper, works with the college to teach a course called “The Real World” in which World-Herald staff members offer students insight into working for a newspaper. Each semester the World-Herald chooses four students to be “fellows,” and they work in the newspaper’s Lincoln bureau.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Additionally, journalism students achieve national recognition by successfully competing in such programs as the Hearst Journalism Awards, the Dow Jones News Fund editing internship program, the Robert F. Kennedy Journalism Awards and the Society of Professional Journalists’ Mark of Excellence Awards.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">The courses required for a 37-hour major in journalism are as follows:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JOMC 11, JOMC 101, JOMC 160, JOMC 486 and JOMC 487; JOUR 201, JOUR 202, JOUR 302, JOUR 304, and either JOUR 446, JOUR 450 or JOUR 497.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">In addition, students select 9 hours of electives from advertising and public relations, broadcasting and/or journalism.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Students may complete two majors in the College of Journalism and Mass Communications by completing all requirements for each major; however, the second major in the college will not take the place of a concentration or any of the 72 hours required outside the college.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph">Graduating seniors also must complete JOMC 98 Senior Assessment. Typically, JOMC 98 (zero credit) is taken in the last semester; however, seniors who have completed all courses for the major may take it two semesters before graduation.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Internship Policy</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may be able to earn credit for internships under certain circumstances. Please go to the college website and find the Internship Policy under the Student Services tab.</p>
<p class="title-1">Credit in Special Experiences</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may earn up to six credit hours toward the degree in some courses: Jacht, National Student Advertising Competition, photojournalism reports, depth reports and others. Students may repeat the same course again for additional credit hours, but those credits will not count toward the degree inside or outside the major. Talk with an academic adviser for further information or specific questions.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>