<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Landscape Architecture 14-15.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="landscape-architecture-14-15">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Landscape Architecture</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Architecture</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Landscape Architecture</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Professional Bachelor of Landscape Architecture (BLA)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120 for BLA</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Kim Wilson</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Kim Wilson,</span> 210 Architecture Hall</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Day, Sutton, Wilson</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Rodie, Tang</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Betnar, Thomas-Karle</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chief Adviser:</span> Kim Wilson, kwilson4@unl.edu</p>
<p class="basic-text">Landscape architecture combines arts and environmental sciences. Landscape architects plan and design spaces and places such as parks, residential developments, campuses, gardens, cemeteries, commercial centers, resorts, transportation facilities, corporate and institutional centers and waterfront developments. They also design and plan the restoration of natural places disturbed by humans such as wetlands, stream corridors, mined areas and forested land. Their appreciation for historic landscapes and cultural resources enables landscape architects to undertake preservation planning projects for national, regional and local historic sites and areas.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Working with architects, city planners, civil engineers and other professionals, landscape architects play an important role in environmental sustainability by designing and implementing projects that respect both the needs of people and of our environment. Therefore, landscape architects must be able to understand the process of nature and impact human settlement has on ecosystems. This requires professionals to manage storm water, select appropriate plant material, and anticipate human impact all with an eye on a sustainable and more resilient future.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The goal of the Landscape Architecture Program is to nurture responsible citizens to address the complexity of world issues that face our discipline through creative and transformational design. Students will:</p>
<ul>
<li>achieve academic excellence so qualities of intellectual curiosity, open communication, personal responsibility, collegiality and the skills to work individually and with other’s are held to rigorously high standards;</li>
<li>receive the educational foundation for a professional career instilled with insightful design and planning ability, key technical skills, ethical judgment, and an ever-enhancing understanding of landscape architecture; and</li>
<li>be grounded in a broad base of knowledge within the curriculum, emphasizing connections among subjects that relate to and inform landscape architecture, thereby enabling investigative and problem-solving on all scales in a creative manner.</li>
</ul>
<p class="title-1">General</p>
<p class="basic-text">The landscape architecture program is a four-year course of study that has been subdivided into a one-year pre-professional (Common First Year) and a three-year professional degree. Students receive a professional bachelor of landscape architecture (BLA) at the end of the fourth year. At the end of the Common First Year, students are required to apply for admission into the professional segment of the curriculum. This review involves an evaluation of the students academic record and a portfolio of their work during the Common First Year. The landscape architecture program is accredited by the Landscape Architectural Accreditation Board (LAAB).</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are required to take an array of courses in support of the core studio sequence in addition to the university’s general education courses. These courses include material in horticulture, enviornmental sciences, architecture, planning, and site engineering in addition to core landscape architecture classes. This curriculum exposes students to various challenges facing the landscape architecture profession including sustainability, landscape ecology, construction issues, stormwater management, infrastructure and issues created by urbanism.</p>
<p class="title-1">d.ONE: Common First Year</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Common First Year (d.ONE) engages and prepares students for exciting futures in all design fields within the College of Architecture.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Common First Year (d.ONE) curriculum offered by the College of Architecture, introduces students to design through courses in three areas: Technique (drawing and computer applications), Design Discipline (an introduction to the related design disciplines and design history), and Design Practice (design Thinking and design Making). In addition, students take University courses in math, English, communications, and a general education elective. dThink and dMake are sequential hands-on courses where students learn to work in teams to address problems and promote innovation. At the same time, they learn the foundational skills in composition, craft, presentation, and idea generation necessary for all design fields.</p>
<p class="basic-text">At the end of the Common First Year, students have gained an understanding of the broad range of design and are eligible to apply to any of the design programs in the College—Architecture, Landscape Architecture, Interior Design, and Industrial Design (pending program approval).</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="title-2">Pre-Landscape Architecture Curriculum</p>
<p class="basic-text">The pre-landscape curriculum begins with a Common First Year design core. This core introduces students to the fundamentals of design thinking and design making. The pre-landscape architecture program is followed by three years of focused landscape architecture instruction leading to a bachelor of landscape architecture. The professional bachelor of landscape architecture degree is the degree accredited by the Landscape Architectural Accreditation Board (LAAB).</p>
<p class="basic-text">The College of Architecture, and all four years of the landscape architecture program, are located in Lincoln. However, we do offer the option to do the first year of the program at UNO. After successfully completing the prescribed pre-landscape architecture program at UNO, students may transfer to UNL and apply for admission to the second year of study in the professional program of the College of Architecture.</p>
<p class="basic-text">For more information about courses at UNO, or transferring from UNO to UNL, please contact us.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">PRE-LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: Common First Year, First Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">DSGN 101 Introduction to Design 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">DSGN 110 Design Thinking <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 7)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">DSGN 120 Design Drawing 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ENGL 150 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> ENGL 151 Composition Elective <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 1)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE 6 Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 14</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">PRE-LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: Common First Year, Second Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">DSGN 111 Design Making 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">DSGN 123 Computer Applications in Design 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">DSGN 140 History of Design <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 5)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 104 Applied Calculus 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Communication Elective: COMM 109 Fundamentals of Human Communication <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 2)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: Second Year, First Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 200 Landscape &amp; Environmental Appreciation (GEOG 200/HORT 200) <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 9)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 210 Fundamental Methods of Design Process 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 212 Landscape Plants I (HORT 212/NRES 212) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 230 Site Systems I: Materiality in Landscape Architecture 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">HORT 131 Plant Science (AGRO 131) <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 4)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 16</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: Second Year, Second Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 211 Studio II: Site Design 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 231 Site Systems II: Site Engineering 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 241 History of Landscape Architecture 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">HORT 153 Soil Resources (AGRO 153/SOIL 153) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CRPL 433 GIS in Environmental Design &amp; Planning 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 17</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: Third Year, First Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 310 Design Studio I: Site Design 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 331 Site Systems III: Layout, Utilities, &amp; Construction Documentation 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CRPL 400 Introduction to Planning <span class="requirement-ital">(ACE 8)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">BIOS 220 Principles of Ecology (NRES 220) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 14</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: Third Year, Second Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 213 Landscape Plants II (HORT 213/NRES 213) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 311 Design Studio II: Site &amp; Building 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 461 Urbanism (ARCH 461) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 380 Internship Preparation 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">BACHELOR OF LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: Third Year, Summer</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 495 Internship 3-6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: Fourth Year, First Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 410 Design Studio III: Community Planning &amp; Design (ACE 10) 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 480 Professional Practice 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 486 Research Methods 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 14</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE: Fourth Year, Second Semester</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 411 Design Studio IV: Urban Design 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Professional Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Professional Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Elective 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total 14</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total for Graduation 120</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Minimum Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students must earn at least a C (2.0) in all courses with an ARCH, DSGN, IDES, or LARC prefix to earn credit toward their degree. Students will be required to retake all core required courses with a grade of C- or below, but will not be required to repeat courses that were taken as electives.</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">None of the required classes offered in the professional program are offered Pass/No Pass, but a maximum of 12 Pass/No Pass credit hours of humanities, social sciences, or open electives may be taken from departments outside the College of Architecture.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Courses taken outside the architecture, landscape architecture, or interior design programs to fulfill the upper level outside elective requirement at the 800 level or 900 level, with or without a 400-level counterpart, in a <span class="basic-text-bold">minor, collateral, or supporting area of work, </span>can be taken on a Pass/No Pass basis.</p>
<p class="title-2">GPA Requirements</p>
<p class="title-3">Pre-Professional Program, Architecture, Landscape Architecture and Interior Design</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in the first year are required to maintain both a semester and cumulative grade point average at or above 2.0. The standard rises to a grade point average of 2.6 in the second year. Admission into the third year of both programs requires a cumulative grade point average of 2.6. The College places students who fail to meet these standards on academic probation.</p>
<p class="title-3">Third and Fourth Year, Interior Design and Landscape Architecture</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students in the third and fourth year of the BLA program are required to maintain a 2.6 cumulative grade point average to remain in good academic standing. The Program places students who fail to meet this standard on academic probation.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="title-1">Minors</p>
<p class="basic-text">The landscape architecture minor is administered through the College of Architecture’s landscape architecture program.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The minor in landscape architecture is designed to provide a basic understanding of the nature of the profession of landscape architecture. Knowledge of landscape architecture history, theory, and context provides a useful addition to a student in any of the University disciplines.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The minor is open to all UNL students. Entrance to the minor is by application, grade review,and permission of the program director, Kim L. Wilson. Contact Leslie Gonzales, admissions coordinator (232 Architecture Hall West, <span class="baec5a81-e4d6-4674-97f3-e9220f0136c1">402-472-4065</span>, lbrehm2@unl.edu) for the application.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Required Courses 18</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">DSGN 110 Design Thinking 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">CRPL 400 Introduction to Planning 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 200 Landscape &amp; Environmental Appreciation (GEOG 200/HORT 200) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 241 History of Landscape Architecture 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 461 Urbanism (ARCH 461) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">LARC 497 Selected Topics in Landscape Architecture 3</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>