<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Meteorology-Climatology 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="meteorology-climatology-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Meteorology-Climatology</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Meteorology-Climatology</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Deborah Bathke</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Chair: Tracy Frank,</span> 214 Bessey</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Professors:</span> Fielding, Frank, Fritz, Goble, Grew, Harwood, Holmes, Hu, Hunt, Joeckel, Loope, Oglesby, Pederson, Rowe, Watkins, Zlotnik</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Associate Professors:</span> Anderson, Houston, Kettler, Rack, Secord, Wang</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Assistant Professors:</span> Arthurs, Bathke, Burberry,  Head, Van Den Broeke, Weber</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Undergraduate Adviser:</span> Deborah Bathke, 220C Bessey Hall, 402-472-6199</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences offers a variety of courses leading to the bachelor of arts and bachelor of science degrees in geology and the bachelor of science degree in meteorology-climatology.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Graduate Work.</span> The Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences offers the master of sciences, and doctor of philosophy degrees. For details see the Graduate Studies Bulletin.</p>
<p class="title-2">Major in Meteorology-Climatology</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences offers a bachelor of science degree in meteorology-climatology. This degree program is comprehensive, but flexible so that you can pursue your own interests within the broad field of atmospheric sciences, while meeting the federal government requirements for employment as a meteorologist. If you choose to further your education, your degree also prepares you for graduate school in the atmospheric sciences and other related fields.</p>
<p class="basic-text">In this degree program, you will build a solid foundation in meteorology-climatology with core courses that combine basic atmospheric science with training in mathematics, computer science, and physics. You will apply this knowledge as you learn analytical problem-solving and forecasting techniques, methods for atmospheric measurements, and how the atmosphere interacts with other components of the earth system. Finally, you can pursue your interests by choosing from elective courses in Severe Storms, Air Pollution, Tropical Meteorology, Global Climate Change, Remote Sensing of the Atmosphere, and many more.</p>
<p class="basic-text">A bachelors degree in meteorology-climatology fulfills the recommended curriculum of the American Meteorological Society (AMS) and the University Corporation for Atmospheric Research (UCAR). The degree program also meets or exceeds the minimum hiring requirements for employment as a meteorologist with the Federal government, thus preparing you for employment with federal agencies such as the National Weather Service, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Environmental Protection Agency, National Park Service, and military. With this degree, you can also work in private weather consulting; broadcast meteorology; and the agriculture, education, and energy sectors.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The University of Nebraska–Lincoln is a member of UCAR.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Specific Major Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">The following curriculum represents the minimum requirements for a major in meteorology-climatology.</p>
<p class="title-3">GROUP A: Core Courses</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">METR 100, METR 205, METR 223, METR 311, METR 312, METR 323, METR 341, either METR 442 or METR 470, and one of the following: METR 463, METR 464, or METR 465</p>
<p class="title-3">GROUP B: Electives</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">At least 12 hours of 400-level METR courses not used to fulfill Group A</p>
<p class="title-3">GROUP C: Required Related Courses</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">MATH 106, MATH 107, MATH 208, MATH 221; STAT 380; PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 221, PHYS 212; CHEM 109; CSCE 155N (Fortran)</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> A minor in math can be obtained with the completion of the required mathematics and statistics courses. A minor in broadcasting is also available with additional course work from the College of Journalism and Mass Communications.</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Program Assessment.</span> In order to assist the department in evaluating the effectiveness of its program in meteorology/climatology, each major during their last semester prior to graduation, will participate in an exit survey to gather information about the program from the student’s perspective. The undergraduate adviser will inform students of the scheduling and format of the assessment activities.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Results of participation in this assessment activity will in no way affect a student’s GPA or graduation.</p>
<p class="title-1">Tracks/Options/Concentrations/Emphases Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">For an emphasis in meteorology students should take METR 442 as their capstone course (ACE 10) from Group A and choose appropriate meteorology courses from Group B. For an emphasis in climatology students should take METR 470 as their capstone course (ACE 10) and choose appropriate climate courses from Group B. It should be noted that these are suggestions only and that students should meet with the Undergraduate Adviser to develop a personalized plan that will fulfill Group B requirements and match their career goals.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Meteorology emphasis.</span> METR 100, METR 205, METR 311, METR 323, METR 341, and one course from the following 400-level meteorology courses: METR 415, METR 421, METR 428, METR 433, METR 442, METR 443, METR 454, METR 463, METR 464, METR 465, METR 471</p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">Climatology emphasis.</span> METR 100, METR 205, METR 475, and three courses from the following 400-level climate courses: METR 408, METR 450, METR 454, METR 470, METR 478, METR 483, METR 487.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>