<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Nutrition Science 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="nutrition-science-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Nutrition Science</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Nutrition Science</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Bachelor of Science in Education &amp; Human Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 120</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> 2.0 for graduation</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Vicki Fisher</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Nutrition Science option is designed for students who wish to combine an emphasis in nutrition with a strong science background. This major provides an appropriate vehicle for premedical, predental, nursing, physical therapy, and laboratory technology majors who may be able to obtain a degree in nutrition and simultaneously meet entrance requirements for a professional program. It is also a suitable avenue for students interested in nutrition research and graduate study since it provides an opportunity to emphasize the basic sciences.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>
<p class="basic-text">The admission requirements for pre-professional programs vary and may change from year to year. Admission to professional programs is competitive. Students need to be aware of not only specific course requirements but also entrance exams, admission deadlines, research and volunteer opportunities, and other activities that enhance the application. In order to receive the most timely information on requirements and preparation, students should visit the Explore Center, 127 Love (Library) South, 402-472-3605.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-2">Degree at a Glance</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">ACE Requirements 32</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 1. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 2. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 3. EDPS 459 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> STAT 218 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Course)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 4. CHEM 109 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Course)</span> 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 5. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 6. PSYC 181 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Course)</span> 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 7. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 8. 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 9. NUTR 253 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> COMM 211 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> SOCI 200 <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> SOCI 217 <span class="requirement-ital">(Supporting Course)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ACE 10. NUTR 455 <span class="requirement-ital">(Professional Requirement)</span> 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Professional Requirements <span class="requirement-ital">(A grade of C or above is required)</span> 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">NUTR 250, NUTR 401, NUTR 402, NUTR 450, NUTR 452 (3 hrs ea) 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Supporting Courses 50-58</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 101 or higher 2-5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOC 431 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 213 &amp; BIOS 312 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 213L &amp; BIOS 314 2</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 214 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 110 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 251 &amp; CHEM 252 &amp; CHEM 253 7</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHYS 141 &amp; PHYS 142 (5 hrs ea) <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 212 (4 hrs ea) 8-10</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3"><span class="requirement-ital">Select any from the following</span>: 5-8</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-4">BIOC 432; any course 200 or above in BIOS, PHYS, CHEM; CHEM 254; any FDST 400 or above; MATH 102 or higher; NUTR 484; PHIL 213; PSYC 380; or any VBMS 300 or above</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Electives 15-23</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Total Hours 120</p>
<p class="title-1">ACE Requirements</p>
<p class="basic-text">All UNL students will be required to complete a minimum of 3 hours of approved course work in each of the 10 designated Achievement Centered Education (ACE) student learning outcome areas. These can be viewed at http://ace.unl.edu. Students will be provided a list of classes they can select from to meet each of the 10 ACE Student Learning Outcomes (SLO). There may be required courses within an education endorsement program that will also satisfy ACE requirements. Therefore, it is highly recommended that students contact their adviser prior to registering for ACE classes in order to insure that each of the class selections are in the best interest of the students’ academic program.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR/ENDORSEMENT REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">C- and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">Only grades of C or above will count toward graduation requirements for NUTR courses.</p>
<p class="title-2">Grades Earned at UNL, UNO, UNK</p>
<p class="basic-text">Grades of D-, D, D+, C- satisfy requirements of the programs in human sciences unless specified otherwise under the Programs and Departments section of the bulletin. Students who receive a grade of D-, D, D+, or C-, however, are encouraged to retake the course, particularly if it is in the major area.</p>
<p class="title-2">Grades Earned Outside UN System</p>
<p class="basic-text">Up to 9 hours of grades below C (C-, D+, D, D-) from other academic institutions can only be applied to general education requirements and elective classes.</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">All courses specified by course and number must be taken for a grade.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Pass/No Pass (P/N) option is designed for students who want to study elective areas or topics when they may have minimum preparation. If used for this purpose, the option can enrich the student’s academic experience without lowering the student’s grade point average. Free electives may be taken P/N. Students can earn no more than 12 hours of pass credit excluding courses offered on Pass/No Pass only basis. Not all classes can be taken under the Pass/No Pass option. All courses, specified by course and number, must be taken for a grade. Should a student have earned a P in one of the courses prior to starting the option, the P will be reviewed by the appropriate department.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>