<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Pre-Law (CASNR) 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="pre-law-casnr-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Pre-Law (CASNR)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Pre-Law (CASNR)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Non-degree seeking only</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> David Aiken</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">Law schools prefer students with broad academic backgrounds. Accordingly, there is no “prelaw” designation. Study toward a bachelor of science degree is excellent prelaw curriculum. There are no particular degree programs or courses students are advised to take to enhance their chances of admission to law school. Students should choose programs and courses that interest them. However, students should take many courses that require writing and complex readings. Students, especially those uncertain about law school, may want to take some courses that focus on law and the courts. While these courses will not enhance chances of admission, they will provide information about the legal system and the legal profession.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Prospective applicants are advised to take the Law School Admission Test (LSAT) during the summer before their last year or the fall of their last year. Information and application materials are available from the Career Services. The Official Guide to U.S. Law Schools, available from the LSAT organization, contains material about the legal profession, the law school experience, the application process, and the individualized information on all American law schools approved by the American Bar Association.</p>
<p class="basic-text">CASNR students contemplating application to law school may contact Professor David Aiken, advisor in the Department of Agricultural Economics, 103 Filley Hall.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>