<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Pre-Law (EC) 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="pre-law-ec-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Pre-Law (EC)</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Exploratory &amp; Pre-Professional Advising Center</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Pre-Law (EC)</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Non-degree seeking</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> N/A</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> N/A</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> N/A</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">The pre-law area of study is an advising category used to identify students advancing toward a law-related career goal. Students cannot declare a major or earn a degree in the pre-law area. Most students use their undergraduate academic program to develop the desired skill set for entry into law school and the legal profession. Students may select any UNL academic major while pursuing a pre-law area of study, and can temporarily select a major of “Pre-Law” through the College of Arts and Sciences while they are exploring and determining which academic major they would like to declare.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students pursuing a pre-law area of study can receive guidance and advice from the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center (Explore Center) by declaring the pre-law category with their college advising office.</p>
<p class="title-1">Pre-Law</p>
<p class="basic-text">Law is the system we use to ensure order and justice for individuals and communities within our society. The broad nature of the legal field allows people to work with the law in a number of ways. Litigation (trial practice), representative practice, legal planning, education, and adjudication (becoming a judge) are traditional ways in which people work directly with the law. However, a legal education is useful and may be applied to a variety of other fields such as business, insurance, government, writing, resource management, or publishing.</p>
<p class="title-1">High School Preparation</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students planning to pursue advanced work in the pre-law program should begin with a strong college preparatory course program in high school. In addition to meeting the University entrance requirements, it is recommended that pre-law students finish four years of the same foreign language in high school.</p>
<p class="title-1">Advising</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are advised in the pre-law area of study by professional academic advisers in the Explore Center. Advisers are available on an appointment and/or walk-in basis Monday through Friday in 127 Love (Library) South and can be reached at 402-472-3605 or explorecenter@unl.edu. Academic advising appointments can also be scheduled through the MyPLAN tab in Blackboard.</p>
<p class="basic-text">In addition to the Explore Center advisers, students with a declared UNL major should work with their assigned major adviser and should check the section of the bulletin outlining the requirements for their specific college of admittance. Those students undecided on a major who were admitted as “Pre-Law” majors to the College of Arts and Sciences should review the college requirements outlined in the Arts and Sciences section of the bulletin.</p>
<p class="title-1">Application and Admission to Law Professional Programs</p>
<p class="basic-text">The admission requirements for law professional programs vary and may change from year to year. Admission to professional programs is competitive. Therefore, students should  be aware of academic recommendations, entrance exams, admission deadlines, research and volunteer opportunities, and other activities that enhance the application. In order to receive the timeliest information on requirements and preparation, students should visit or contact the Explore Center at 402-472-3605 or explorecenter@unl.edu. Information is also available on the Explore Center website http://explorecenter.unl.edu/.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>