<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Pre-Veterinary Medicine 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="pre-veterinary-medicine-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Pre-Veterinary Medicine</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Agricultural Sciences &amp; Natural Resources</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Pre-Veterinary Medicine</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Non-degree seeking only</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 60-70</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> Typically 2.50</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> No</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Michael Carlson</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="faculty-list-bold">Director: Donald L. Reynolds, School of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, 120C Vet Basic Sciences</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold">Head:</span> Larry Berger, Department of Animal Science, C203 Animal Sciences</p>
<p class="basic-text">Pre-Veterinary Medicine Program (PVET) is intended to academically qualify students for admission to a school or college of veterinary medicine, hereafter referred to as veterinary school. It is the undergraduate college-level preparation required for the successful completion of the professional veterinary medical curriculum taken at a veterinary school necessary to earn the doctor of veterinary medicine (DVM) degree.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Required PVET courses are specified by each of the individual veterinary schools, and although some courses are required by each veterinary school, there are some differences. The focus of the UNL PVET program is the courses required for admission to the Professional Program in Veterinary Medicine. It usually takes about three years to complete all of the required PVET courses.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students must meet the PVET requirements for each and every veterinary school to which they wish to make application. Required courses for veterinary schools may be found on their websites.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Generally, PVET courses must be taken for a grade, unless the course is offered only on a Pass/No Pass basis. Otherwise, courses taken Pass/No Pass do not fulfil PVET requirements.</p>
<p class="basic-text">The PVET Program is NOT a degree-granting program. It is intended only to help students fulfil requirements for admission to a veterinary school. All PVET students are encouraged to enroll in a baccalaureate degree program concurrently with the PVET Program. UNL baccalaureate degree programs in which UNL PVET students commonly enroll are Veterinary Science, Animal Science, Veterinary Technology, and Fisheries and Wildlife. But any baccalaureate degree may be perused. Students are urged to consult with their PVET advisor to explore their options.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students may matriculate at UNL in the PVET program, but they are expected to designate a baccalaureate degree major by the end of their sophomore year.</p>
<p class="faculty-list"><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span><span class="faculty-list-bold"></span><span class="header-paragraph-title"></span></p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">PPVM Pre-Veterinary Medicine Core</p>

<p class="MsoNormal" style="margin: 3.9pt -1pt 0.0001pt 4.5pt; line-height: 11.3pt;"><span style="font-family: Verdana, sans-serif;"><span style="letter-spacing: 0.1pt;"></span><span style="letter-spacing: -0.05pt;"></span><span style="letter-spacing: -0.05pt;"></span><span style="letter-spacing: 0.15pt;"></span><span style="letter-spacing: -0.05pt;"></span><span style="letter-spacing: -0.5pt;"></span><span style="letter-spacing: 0.15pt;"></span><span style="letter-spacing: -0.05pt;"></span><span style="letter-spacing: 0.15pt;"></span><span style="letter-spacing: -0.05pt;"></span><span style="letter-spacing: 0.15pt;"></span><span style="letter-spacing: 0.15pt;"></span><span style="letter-spacing: 0.1pt;"></span><span style="letter-spacing: -0.95pt;"></span><span style="letter-spacing: 0.05pt;"></span><span style="letter-spacing: 0.1pt;"></span><span style="letter-spacing: -0.05pt;"></span></span></p>
<p><span style="line-height: 11.3pt; font-family: Verdana, sans-serif;"></span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Verdana, sans-serif;"><span style="line-height: 15.0666666030884px;"></span></span><span style="line-height: 11.3pt; font-family: Verdana, sans-serif;"></span><span style="line-height: 11.3pt; font-family: Verdana, sans-serif;"></span><span style="line-height: 11.3pt; font-family: Verdana, sans-serif;"></span><span style="line-height: 11.3pt; font-family: Verdana, sans-serif;"></span><span style="line-height: 11.3pt; font-family: Verdana, sans-serif;"> </span></p>
<p class="header-paragraph"><span class="header-paragraph-title">NOTE:</span> What follows fulfills the PVET requirements for the Professional Program in Veterinary Medicine (PPVM), a cooperative program between the University of Nebraska–Lincoln and Iowa State University. Criteria for admission to that program may be found on the PPVM website at http://vetmed.unl.edu/prospectivestudents. Students planning to attend other veterinary schools must check with those schools to determine if there are any differences between the other veterinary school and the PPVM PVET requirements.</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">College Integrative Course 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">AGRI 103 Introduction to Agricultural &amp; Natural Resource Systems (NRES 103) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Veterinary Science 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">VBMS 101 Success in Veterinary Science 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Natural Science Courses 38-40</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Life Sciences 8</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">LIFE 120 &amp; LIFE 120L Fundamentals of Biology I &amp; Lab (ACE 4) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">LIFE 121 &amp; LIFE 121L Fundamentals of Biology II &amp; Lab (ACE 4) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Genetics 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AGRO 315 Genetics <span class="requirement-bold">or</span> BIOS 206 General Genetics 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Anatomy and Physiology 4-8</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Select from:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ASCI 240 Anatomy &amp; Physiology of Domestic Animals (4 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 213 Human Physiology (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOS 214 Human Anatomy (5 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Chemistry 15</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 109 General Chemistry I (ACE 4) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 110 General Chemistry II (ACE 4) 4</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 251 Organic Chemistry I 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 252 Organic Chemistry II 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CHEM 253 Organic Chemistry I Lab <strong>or </strong>CHEM 254 Organic Chemistry II Lab 1</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Physics 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Select from:</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHYS 141 Elementary General Physics I (ACE 4) (5 cr)</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-3">PHYS 211 &amp; PHYS 221 General Physic I &amp; Lab (5 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Biological Chemistry 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Select from:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOC 321 Elements of Biochemistry (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">BIOC 431 Biomolecules &amp; Metabolism (BIOS 431/CHEM 431) (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Mathematics and Statistics 5</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Five credit hours beyond MATH 101  College Algebra</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital"> Select from:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 102 Trigonometry (2 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 103 College Algebra &amp; Trigonometry (5 cr) <span class="requirement-ital">(only 2 credit hours apply)</span></p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 104 Applied Calculus (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">MATH 106 Calculus I (5 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">STAT 218 Introduction to Statistics (ACE 3) (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Communications 9</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Written Communication(ACE 1) 6</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Select two from:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENGL 150 Writing: Rhetoric as Inquiry (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENGL 151 Writing: Rhetoric as Argument (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ENGL 254 Writing and Communities (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JGEN 120 Basic Business Communication (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JGEN 200 Technical Communication I (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">JGEN 300 Technical Communication II (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Oral Communication (ACE 2) 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2 requirement-ital">Select one from:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">COMM 109 Fundamentals of Human Communication (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">COMM 209 Public Speaking (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">COMM 283 Interpersonal Communication (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">COMM 286 Business &amp; Professional Communication (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">Economics ACE 6 3</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">Select one from: </p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">AECN 141 Introduction to the Economics of Agriculture (3 cr)</p>

<p class="requirement-sec-3">ECON 200 Economic Essentials and Issues (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">ECON 211/211H Principles of Macroeconomics (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2"><span class="requirement-sec-3">ECON 212</span>/212H Principles of Microeconomics (3 cr) </p>

<p class="requirement-sec-3">ECON 212/ECON 212H Principles of Microeconomics (3 cr)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-1">ACE Courses 12</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3-note">Select one course each from ACE outcomes 5, 7, 8, and 9.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADDITIONAL MAJOR REQUIREMENTS</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">All couses should be taken for a letter grade, unless the course is only offered Pass/No Pass (P/N). A course taken P/N may either be not accepted or accepted as if the student earned a C for that course.</p>
<p class="title-2">C and D Grades</p>
<p class="basic-text">A grade of at least a C must be eanred in each course. </p>

            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>