<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Software Development Minor 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="software-development-minor-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Software Development Minor</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Arts &amp; Sciences</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Software Development Minor</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> Minor only</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> 18</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> Yes</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> Charles Riedesel and Christopher Bourke</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>

<p class="basic-text">The software development minor prepares students with skill sets to enable them to meet the growing demand for familiarity and competency with software development. The minor is designed to:</p>
<ul>
<li>enable students from a <span class="basic-text-ital">diverse</span> set of majors and backgrounds to participate; and </li>
<li>provide a <span class="basic-text-ital">strong foundation </span>in software development to allow them to apply computing throughout their career.</li>
</ul>
<p class="header-paragraph">The minor consists of 6 required courses. THe minor's objectives are anchored around a set of core outcomes, such that students completing the minor will be able to:</p>
<ul>
<li>Apply sound software development principles and methodologies to creat software systems that solve real-world problems in various disciplines.</li>
<li>Interact, use and manage large data sets and solve data-centric problems, organize, visualize, and communicate digital data effectively; and use creative competencies to generate creative solutions.</li>
<li>Understand the roles of various stake-holders in software development projects including domain experts, project managers, customers, and developers.</li>
<li>Contribute one's expertise to the solution problems by effectively collaborating and communicating with other stake-holders in software development projects.</li>
</ul>

<p class="content-box-h-1">REQUIREMENTS FOR MINOR OFFERED BY DEPARTMENT</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-2">18 hours of course work taken in the following order:</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CSCE 120: Learning To Code (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CSCE 220: Software Development for Smart-Mobile Systems (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CSCE 320: Data Analysis (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CSCE 464: Internet Systems &amp; Programming (3 hrs)</p>
<p class="requirement-sec-3">CSCE 493: Innovation Lab Project (6 hrs)</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">Credits earned using the Pass/No Pass options do not count toward this minor.</p>
<p class="title-1">Restrictions</p>
<p class="basic-text">A course taken to meet the requirement of a major cannot be counted fowards this minor.</p>
<p class="basic-text">This minor is not open to Computer Science or Computer Engineering majors.</p>
            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>