<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Undeclared 15-16.xhtml</title>
        <link href="template.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="undeclared-15-16">
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="major-name">Undeclared</p>
            </div>
            <div class="generated-style">
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">COLLEGE:</span> Exploratory &amp; Pre-Professional Advising Center</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MAJOR:</span> Undeclared</p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">DEGREE OFFERED:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">HOURS REQUIRED:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINIMUM CUMULATIVE GPA:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">MINOR AVAILABLE:</span> </p>
                <p class="quick-points"><span class="quick-point-bold">CHIEF ADVISER:</span> </p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">DESCRIPTION</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center (Explore Center) provides an academic home for students who are still deciding upon a major or who are transitioning between majors. The Center does not award degrees and undeclared students will transfer to one of the UNL undergraduate colleges when they have chosen an academic major and degree program.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADMISSION</p>
<p class="title-1">Program Admission</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students who have met the overall University admission requirements established by the Board of Regents are eligible for admission to the Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center. The University admission requirements are outlined in detail on the Admissions website at http://admissions.unl.edu/.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Some UNL colleges have admission requirements in addition to the overall University admission requirements, and undeclared students will be advised accordingly as they choose the majors they would like to pursue in their chosen colleges.</p>
<p class="title-1">Admission Deficiencies/Removal of Deficiencies</p>
<p class="basic-text">Because admission requirements establish the level of knowledge and skills which are needed for a student to succeed at UNL, students who are admitted with core course deficiencies in foreign language and geometry are expected to quickly remove them. Deficiencies must be removed before a student is eligible for graduation.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ADVISING</p>
<p class="basic-text">Professional academic advisors in the Explore Center engage undeclared students in major exploration, degree planning, and academic course work selection processes. By working closely with all of the UNL colleges, Explore Center advisors can help students design a general academic plan for one or more semesters that will allow them to progress toward a degree, while also exploring the variety of opportunities offered by the University. Students are encouraged to enroll in exploratory courses to help identify majors of interest. Additionally, all UNL students are required to complete the Achievement-Centered Education (ACE) requirements (for more information see http://ace.unl.edu).</p>
<p class="basic-text">Undeclared students are encouraged to meet with a professional academic advisor in the Explore Center early in their first semester at UNL to discuss interest areas and to develop a plan for major exploration. Undeclared students should continue to meet with an Explore Center advisor at least once per semester and participate in Explore Center workshops until they have declared their major. Additional information concerning major exploration can be found on the Explore Center (http://explorecenter.unl.edu) and Career Services (http://www.unl.edu/careers/explore) websites.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Students are assigned to a professional academic advisor in the Explore Center but may see any advisor in the center. Professional advisors in the Explore Center are available on an appointment and/or walk-in basis Monday through Friday in 127 Love (Library) South and can be reached at 402-472-3605 or http://explorecenter@unl.edu.</p>
<p class="content-box-h-1">ACADEMIC POLICIES</p>
<p class="title-1">Academic Load</p>
<p class="basic-text">Undeclared students may enroll in a maximum of 18 credits in the fall and spring semesters. Students should refer to the Summer Schedule of Classes to determine the number of credits they may enroll in for each of the summer sessions.</p>
<p class="title-1">Grade Rules</p>
<p class="title-2">Pass/No Pass Limits</p>
<p class="basic-text">The Pass/No Pass grading option was designed to enable students to take courses in areas of interest where they may feel they have had minimal preparation without adversely affecting their grade point average. Grades of P (pass) are interpreted as a grade of C or better. Neither grade P or NP (no pass) contributes to the grade point average.</p>
<p class="basic-text">Undeclared students should always seek assistance from an Explore Center advisor in determining whether they should take a course on the Pass/No Pass option. Students may or may not be able to take courses Pass/No Pass depending on their intended majors.</p>
<p class="title-1">Student Recognition</p>
<p class="basic-text">Undeclared students who complete at least 12 graded semester hours with a 3.60 GPA are eligible for the Undeclared Students Honor Roll.</p>
<p class="title-1">Transfer Credit Rules</p>
<p class="basic-text">Exploratory and Pre-Professional Advising Center does not offer a degree and advisors do not make transfer evaluation decisions. The determination of which transfer courses will meet graduation requirements in a specific college cannot be made until the student declares a specific major within one of the UNL undergraduate degree-granting colleges.</p>            </div>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>